Circadia University Body Treatment: Dry Brushing Guide

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TBf5MCR5g8

Introduction
Hi everyone, welcome back to Circadia University. Today we’re going to be doing our fabulous body treatment. The first step in this treatment is dry brushing. This is going to really promote a lot of circulation within the body and also help remove any dead skin.

Dry Brushing Technique
We’re going to go ahead and start our dry brushing. With dry brushing, you want to make sure that you're going to go up towards the heart. I'm going to use straight motions. It's okay if you start to see the client's skin turn red; it's just showing you that it's promoting more circulation within the body. You’re going to go up towards the heart and also do circular motions up the body.

Just really promote that circulation and lymphatic drainage. You can turn the arm towards the body and do the same motion. Making sure that you are including the elbows because sometimes the elbows can hold more keratin build-up. You're also going to turn the arm so the palm is facing up and do the exact same thing: brush going towards the heart and then do circular motions as well, clockwise and counterclockwise.

Abdominal Brushing
Now we're going to move on to the next section of the body: the abdominal area. You're going to do the exact same thing; you can brush up towards the heart. Also, you want to make sure that you're doing circular motions as well. This is also really beneficial for the digestive system. You want your clients to be very well exfoliated and ensure their blood flow is circulating. Make sure that you get the sides as well.

Leg Brushing (Front)
Our next step is moving on to the legs. We're going to use the "diaper drape" method to make sure that we keep the client modest. You're going to just gather the sheets in your hands, place them on the side so that it exposes your client's leg, then take one thin piece of the sheet, place it underneath behind their knee, and pull it straight through.

I'm going to be using two body brushes during the dry brushing step. With the same technique as the arms and the stomach, we're going to go up towards the body, towards the heart. Again, we're promoting that blood circulation and lymphatic drainage while removing dead skin. You can really work the kneecap area too. You want to get the inside of the leg, the shin, and also the outer part of the leg. Incorporate circular motions as well. Sometimes I like to spend a little bit of extra time on the knee area.

Once we are done, I'm going to show you guys how to remove the diaper drape: place your hand underneath behind your client's knee, pull the thinnest part of the sheet out through their knee, and pull their leg down. Once we've completed this side, go to the opposite side to do the exact same thing. Dry brushing is also very good right before you shave or right before you wax.

Back Brushing
Now we're going to go ahead and turn my client over. In the process, you want to make sure they stay completely modest. The method I like using is the "tinting" method: pull the sheet up a little bit higher than how they are lying on the table to allow enough movement without exposing their body.

We'll pull the sheet a little bit further down to the very top of their undergarments and tuck it right underneath. Make sure that you do not have any contact with their undergarments, just the sheet. We’re going to start the dry brushing on the back. It's the same motion as we did in the front; we're just going to go straight up towards the heart using vertical motions. The pressure should not be too deep—just light to medium pressure.

Really focus on any dry areas that your client may have. Working the sides, you can turn the brush upside down and pull the skin a little bit further to brush upwards. From here, you want to start to get the back and the sides of the arms as well. This area typically has a lot of keratosis pilaris, and dry brushing will help with that. Next, go in circular motions. Focus on the shoulders as well. With some clients, you will see a little bit of dryness down their spine; it's okay to work in that area, just don't apply a lot of pressure. When I am done with one area, I like to always just brush towards the heart before I go on to the next step.

Leg Brushing (Back) & Feet
Now we're going to move on to the back of the legs using the same diaper drape. I like to hold my client's ankles underneath just to give them a little bit more support and make it more comfortable for them. I'm going to brush towards the heart again. Focus on any areas where it's a little bit more dry.

Once you get to the hip or the derriere area, do the exact same motions: brush up into the hip area and do circular motions as well. This also helps reduce cellulite. I love to get the back of the heel and around the ankles because they get dry. Do circular motions going towards the heart on the outside and the inside. I’m going to just bend the client's foot a little bit while holding their ankle in my palm and do circular motions on the heels. When doing dry brushing on the feet, you're also connecting with reflexology, which helps with the internal organs within the body. We're getting two for the price of one. Now we're going to go ahead and complete the other steps on the opposite side.