Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eetDGFjEnAE


A good massage can be fabulous, but there are mistakes that can do more harm than good. Here with what you should and should not do when it comes to massage therapy is expert John Lewis. Thanks for coming in, John.

John: It's good to be here. A lot of people find things that they see online or in the store and think, "Oh, I can do that and feel great." You have to be real careful with that. It’s actually very difficult to hurt yourself; however, you can. What most people do to hurt themselves is overusing tools.

If you're going to use them—even foam rollers—people want to foam roll every day. I always say foam roll every other day max, or every third day. When you do it, don't overdo it, okay? Because you can really hurt yourself. People end up bruising themselves more than anything with improper massage. Nerve damage is possible, but again, it’s very difficult to do that. Just be careful when you’re up near the spine; you're asking for trouble there and can get into nerve trouble.

Interviewer: Okay, let's see some tips. These are tools you created?

John: Yes, ma'am. I was inducted into the Massage Therapy Hall of Fame, and this is the "Massage Therapy Hall of Fame Tool." This is a stainless steel, high-quality, rigid metal tool with a coated tip for great self-care. I’m going to demonstrate that a little. I have the "Massage Star XL" and our regular "Massage Star." These are all available on Amazon. Our products have been used by professional sports teams and college teams for many years all over the country.

There are three muscles on either side of the spine called the suboccipital muscles. Tension here is often associated with tension headaches. So, if you or anyone in your family has a tension headache, you can lay down and work these muscles. Even just a few minutes can make a big difference. I really encourage people to just hold on to these points and massage them gently. Oftentimes you can feel the stiffness. Someone else can do this for you, but you can also do some of this stuff at home with a spouse or child. Right now, I'm squeezing and holding pressure while lifting the head a little bit.

I also want to demonstrate something for pickleball injuries, like tennis elbow. Those tendons right here are where the condition called lateral epicondylitis occurs. If you just work these tissues with the "Star," you can find relief. This is called muscle stripping—or in this case, tendon stripping—as we're going with the fibers.

Again, just do a few strokes. We don't recommend lubricant for this particular technique because you can use the skin as the lubricant as you glide over the tissues. It might hurt a little bit, but "no pain, no gain," right? You don't want to wait until you've got a debilitating condition because that could even lead to surgery for people who have really severe tennis elbow.

For holding trigger points, I find a tender spot and hold it for 10 seconds—or for me, usually 30 seconds. This tool is great for self-care; you can work your own shoulders, back, and even go into your lumbar spine. There's also something called Piriformis Syndrome. The piriformis is a really important muscle in the gluteal region. You can hold pressure or strip the muscle with this tool. There are lots of competitors out there, but I would argue this is the best for holding that pressure.

Interviewer: Well, thank you both so much for joining us. That was very helpful. You can get more information and reach out to John via his website and social media. Thank you!