Nervous System Reset | Self foot reflexology massage | Deep relaxation | Stress & anxiety relief

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZFo0iJzFkc


Hi everyone. Thank you so much for being here today. Before we begin, please just note this video is for educational and relaxation only. Reflexology is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. So, please always consult a qualified health care professional if you're having any ongoing medical concerns or symptoms.

For those of you who might be new to reflexology, I'm just going to begin by quickly showing you three images that will explain exactly where the reflexology points are located and just give you a little bit of understanding as to which area they connect to.

So, this first image you're looking at now is a more traditional reflexology map. You'll notice the different organs and body systems are labeled across the foot and each area of the foot corresponds to a specific body part. So, please feel free to go ahead and screenshot this for future use.

In this next beautiful image, we can see the five horizontal lines that go across the foot and the zones move from the toes down toward the heel and represent different levels of the body from the head down to the lower body. Then last but certainly not least, again another wonderful representation showing the five vertical zones which run all the way from the heels to the toes.

And of course, we can see there that they run the length of the body from top to bottom.

So, now that you've seen where the reflex points are, we can go ahead and begin. So, I'm just cleaning the foot here with a wipe. I have already given them a wonderful soak in a nice hot foot bath. But if you don't have one of those, then a nice antibacterial wipe is absolutely fine cuz it's important. Although we're working on our own feet, we still want them to be nice and fresh and comfortable before we begin.

Before we begin to press specific points, it's really nice to just warm up the foot. Apply some oil or lotion as I've done just here just to protect my clothing. I've just popped a towel down just so that no oil gets on there. I'm just applying this nice and slowly. Making contact with the skin, giving it some love, using a pressure that feels comfortable for you.

I love to use the thumbs on the feet because you can really just get into all the little areas. Work the toes as well because we will be paying them some attention.

And when you're ready and you feel your feet are nice and warm, we'll start at the big toe, which if you've had a look at those images, you'll know this is the head. So, we'll start by pressing in the center of the big toe, which is the pituitary gland. This is a truly wonderful area to work as it's also known as the master gland. It releases hormones that controls growth, metabolism, stress, reproduction. It even helps to regulate glands such as the thyroid, and the adrenals.

So, it's a truly wonderful area to give some focus to. And just a quick tip, if your nails are too long to press into any points, you can instead use your knuckle. I will confess, as you can probably see, my nails at the moment are longer than they would normally be for work. However, as I'm off for the festive period, I've let them just grow a little bit. Um, however, when I return to work shortly, they will be trimmed down.

So, please don't think that you can't do this just because you have long nails. You absolutely can. Just use the knuckle instead.

I love to work over the whole of the big toe pad because this area represents the whole of the head, the neck, the thyroid, the pituitary. It holds so many beneficial points. So, just work your way all across. If you need to focus more on the neck or the thyroid, if you're having more hormonal problems, then as I am just here, focus along the base. If you're having migraines and headaches, you could focus up towards the top of the big toe.

Then as we work across the remaining toes one by one, each toe connects to different areas of the head. We have the sinuses, the eyes, and the ears. So, if you suffer with hay fever, regular sinus issues, eye or ear infections or conditions, then this can be wonderful just to work across the toes. As we move to the ball of the foot, the first area that we'll work on will be just in the curve of the big toe, which is still the thyroid.

So, the thyroid runs all along here up into the big toe.

And you can either use the traditional reflexology technique as shown here, which is thumb walking. It's like a little caterpillar movement going across. Or if you can't quite figure out how to do that, you absolutely can just glide the thumb along.

Then to complete working on the upper zone, we'll just work along the inside of the big toe, which represents the cervical portion of the spine.

So that is the upper spine where the neck is.

The other areas in the ball of the foot are mainly the chest, the lungs, the heart and the upper digestive system.

So we can just open up this area with our thumbs and have a feel for anywhere that feels particularly blocked. If you've been suffering with any sinus issues, any respiratory issues, coughs or colds, then you may very well find that this area on the lungs feels quite congested.

The area that I'm pointing to just here is a really powerful point to hold on the feet as it's the solar plexus. When you're suffering with any stress, anxiety, any worries, it's normal for the solar plexus to become tight. So, it's really nice just to hold in and take some deep breaths at the same time.

If you are suffering with anxiety or worries, it's quite normal that you may be holding tension in the shoulders as well. So this area that we're just working on here underneath the little toe is the shoulder. So just pay some attention there. And again, you may find this feels quite tight just like your shoulders probably do. So just work over that. Just give it some love and make sure you take some deep breaths at the same time.

You'll notice me throughout this practice just do some nice slow movements with my thumb or palm. This is just to keep the foot nice and warm and relaxed as we work through the points.

Now we'll move into the next zone, working on the liver.

The liver is an extremely vital organ that we can often take for granted, but it's responsible for so many of the processes that we require of the body every single day. From cleaning the blood to processing nutrients from food, making bile to help digest fats, storing glycogen, which is energy, helping fight infections. you know, the the the liver is beautiful and certainly a wonderful reflex point to work.

So, as we now work down into the middle of the foot, really into the third zone into the arch, we have most of the digestive organs.

So, that's the stomach, liver, kidneys, and intestines.

As you work your way up through the middle of the foot here, this is an area that I find on my clients is often extremely tight. We've got the kidneys, the adrenals, the stomach, and the pancreas.

So, some of the largest and hardest working organs are all in this section of the foot.

You may find that the adrenals in particular, which sit on top of the kidneys and they are responsible for controlling and releasing stress hormones such as cortisol and adrenaline.

So if you again are living in a state of stress and you get highly stressed, the adrenals will be producing a lot of these hormones and as such in the foot they could feel extremely tight. So you could just go ahead and pay a lot of attention just by working gently over and just holding into them. You could even again go ahead and use a single knuckle or the whole fist if you do want some deeper pressure. If that feels good for you, then you absolutely could go ahead and do that.

As we work our way down into the fourth zone, we have the small intestines here. And as I'm working on the right foot, we have the ascending colon which goes up and across. However, if you were working on the left foot, you'd be working on the descending colon and you'd need to work in the opposite direction.

But here you can just see me working up and then I'll go across the colon.

So, this is particularly wonderful if you do suffer with anything from IBS to IBD, bloating or constipation.

Really, anything that's related to the gastrointestinal system, you'll really want to focus a lot in the middle of the foot.

As I am filming this just a few days after Christmas, I actually can feel that for me there's definitely a little bit of a blockage in these areas as I have indulged just slightly in some richer foods than I normally would.

So this reflexology for me was about trying to rebalance the body as I returned to my normal healthy diet.

So, I'm just doing this to assist me ensuring that all of my systems go back into balance.

And that really is the beauty of reflexology.

There's no right or wrong or one sizefits all. This is a practice for you to connect to your body.

feel all the different areas and give attention to the areas that you need.

And just whilst we're here as well, I'll just show you that running along the inside of the foot is the whole of the spine.

So whether you perhaps suffer with upper neck issues, middle of the back or lower back, you could work the relevant portion of the spine on the inside of the foot. We could then just finish off this portion just working across the small intestine and the bladder.

You may find the bladder is sensitive if you drink alcohol or don't drink a lot of water.

That area may feel a little bit tender.

And so now we reach the bottom zone which is the heel of the foot which relates to the hips, legs and lower back. So I like to just support my foot here so that it doesn't move as I work all along the lumbar section of the spine which is the base of the spine.

So this is particularly wonderful if you suffer with lower back pain, bulge discs, sciatica, then you can really focus in all along the heel.

The sciatic nerve runs just at the base of the heel, right in the middle.

So you can just do some strokes and some holds all along this area.

Finally, we'll now just go down to the ankle.

It feels really nice just to do some circles here to help with flexibility and movement.

And this area is linked to the reproductive organs.

So, really great again if you suffer with ovarian pain, PMS, heavy periods.

Really great just to work over the ankle.

So that is the reflexology portion of this video complete.

However, whenever I finish a session of reflexology on myself or on my clients, I do like to just work over either with my thumbs, palms, or knuckles to just make sure all those areas of tension have been broken down.

I'll normally begin with the firmer pressure all across the foot and then as I draw to an end I'll move into slow caring touches just to give some love to the foot and just to tell the nervous system the treatment is coming to an end.

allowing my body to relax completely

and to balance back out naturally

draining up towards the ankle

moving around

the lymphatic system

encouraging our wonderful body to begin to heal itself.

I like to interlace the fingers into the toes

and give the foot a nice stretch.

Some other nice finishing moves that you can do are just some nice brisk rubs.

This just helps to wake up over seven and a half thousand nerve endings in the feet just to let the feet know that we are now done for the day.

And then again some nice foot openers using the palm of the hand. Some manual stretches of the foot. Support the ankle. Bend the foot only to a level of comfortability for you.

You could bend the toes. You could work over the toes. Of course, we focus today on the plantar aspect of the foot, on the sole, but it's certainly worth giving the top of the toes and foot a little bit of attention to as we finish today.

Some gentle squeezes from the toes up to the heel

of a beautiful way to complete today's treatment.

I'd just like to say if you've made it to this point, thank you so so much for watching. I really hope you've enjoyed

that you've learned something and that most importantly you feel relaxed and balanced. If you've got any questions for me, just pop them in the comments below.

Please give a like, subscribe, and perhaps share this with a loved one or anyone who you think could benefit from this wonderful treatment. I have got some more videos that go even deeper into detail about reflexology.

So, please check them out if you wish.

Again, just thank you so much for joining me. I really, really hope you've enjoyed and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.