File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	17	to an end I'll move into slow caring touches 	just 	to give some love to the foot and just 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	17	drape. I like to hold my client's ankles underneath 	just 	to give them a little bit more support and 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	17	or ear infections or conditions, then this can be wonderful 	just 	to work across the toes. As we move to 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	17	you suffer with ovarian pain, PMS, heavy periods.  Really great 	just 	to work over the ankle.  So that is the 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	16	say about it. I'll say a little bit more 	just 	to distinguish. It's very very light surface level 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	just go down to the ankle.  It feels really nice 	just 	to do some circles here to help with flexibility 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	16	after the event, it's also very light, very fast, 	just 	to help flush all the tissue and kind of 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	solar plexus to become tight. So, it's really nice 	just 	to hold in and take some deep breaths at 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	nice slow movements with my thumb or palm. This is 	just 	to keep the foot nice and warm and relaxed 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	seven and a half thousand nerve endings in the feet 	just 	to let the feet know that we are now 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	16	want we can do a couple circles in the armpit 	just 	to make sure we're keeping those lymph nodes 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	some oil or lotion as I've done just here 	just 	to protect my clothing. I've just popped a 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	16	circles right in that crease area right in the  groin 	just 	to stimulate those lymph nodes and then we're 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	16	touches just to give some love to the foot and 	just 	to tell the nervous system the treatment is coming 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	22	and wrist so our hand and fingers so i'm 	just 	going to do the back of the hand and 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	22	move on to our next um Petr technique I'm 	just 	going to do two to three Strokes of eaj 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	21	of you who might be new to reflexology, I'm 	just 	going to begin by quickly showing you three images 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	21	any reason and we start with the fingers it's 	just 	going to get clogged and backed up here and 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	21	same motion as we did in the front; we're 	just 	going to go straight up towards the heart using 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	21	that your client's shoulders are quite high up then 	just 	going to move those shoulders away from the ears 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	21	can spend as much time as you need i'm 	just 	going to speed it up a little bit for 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	21	back and as I come into the neck I'm 	just 	going to use one hand to keep the hair 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	21	i'm going to use two hands and we're 	just 	going to work in the front of the leg 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	21	the head and neck and face area and i'm 	just 	going to zoom in a little bit so it'
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	13	the middle of the foot.  As I am filming this 	just 	a few days after Christmas, I actually can feel 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	13	headache, you can lay down and work these muscles. Even 	just 	a few minutes can make a big difference. I 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	13	work in the toes they can do each toe individually 	just 	like the fingers but one thing that people tend 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	13	two parts it has what we call a nuclear membrane 	just 	like the skin had its own membrane the nuclear 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	12	that you will not earn a consistent income that's 	just 	a fact of the industry that very very few 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	12	organelles in them now keep in mind that that is 	just 	a good generate general cell that is just stuffed 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	12	Come here. So let's see. The first chapter is 	just 	a little introduction. And then we have chapter 2, how 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	12	as you want then we're going to just spend 	just 	a moment around the knee same thing like the 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	12	a truly wonderful area to give some focus to. And 	just 	a quick tip, if your nails are too long 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	12	it is a longer term effect than let's say 	just 	a rapid Swedish massage. However, it's a rapid 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	12	I just want to make clear that that's really 	just 	a the same term as Ralphing. Ida Rolf who 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	12	going to get fixed anytime soon and so it's 	just 	a thing that you have to accept and work 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	12	similar jobs so keeping in mind that the cell is 	just 	like a person we have some things in a 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	12	That's what the MBLEx is all about. It's 	just 	like, do you get the right answer? How do 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	12	and I'll just wait and I'll sit there 	just 	like I'm doing neuromuscular trigger point therapy and 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	12	about stretching muscles and fashcia and more about energy lines. 	Just 	like shiatsu practitioners, that's the underlying thought process 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	12	a beautiful way to complete today's treatment.  I'd 	just 	like to say if you've made it to 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	12	is kind of like a membrane so cells have membranes 	just 	like we do it is essentially the outer skin 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	12	then you walk out and two hours later you feel 	just 	like you did two hours ago. With myofascial release, 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	12	there. And again, you may find this feels quite tight 	just 	like your shoulders probably do. So just work over 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	17	week out without feeling beat up and so you really 	just 	want to make sure that you're practicing if 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	17	it could actually make you run slower, right? So, so 	just 	want to make those real distinctions. This is what 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	17	to somebody who's more western in thought. But I 	just 	want to make it clear that what they're 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	17	on my list which is  ### Structural Integration Structural integration. I 	just 	want to make clear that that's really just 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	14	only are trained in Thai. And so, you know, you 	just 	want to check into that and make sure that 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	14	nights and weekends uh if you're not and you 	just 	want to work weekday mornings or weekday afternoons you 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	10	the same time.  You'll notice me throughout this practice 	just 	do some nice slow movements with my thumb or 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	10	of the heel, right in the middle.  So you can 	just 	do some strokes and some holds all along this 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	9	tendon stripping—as we're going with the fibers.  Again, 	just 	do a few strokes. We don't recommend lubricant 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	bit better but what we're going to do is 	just 	do circles right behind the knee to stimulate those 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	going to go also to that  inner elbow crease and 	just 	do nice gentle circles we'll do about five 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	to or if you'd like to or you can 	just 	do them all at the same time and then 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	it can help with the lower arm so we'll 	just 	do 5 to 8 there and then we're going to 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	9	you come in and get something like that, you I 	just 	want you to know that that's what that 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	12	they're normal like neck pain back pain shoulder pain 	just 	be willing to be h with the client hey 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	12	I'm going to try and help you out and 	just 	be willing to work on stuff that you're 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	12	have a consistent steady income so my top recommendation is 	just 	be willing to restructure your life around working nights 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	kind  of working from the middle out to the sides 	just 	be gentle if you want to work on  top 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	work on  top of the eyelid or on the eye 	just 	be gentle you don't put a lot of 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	8	possible, but again, it’s very difficult to do that. 	Just 	be careful when you’re up near the spine; 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	8	on myself or on my clients, I do like to 	just 	work over either with my thumbs, palms, or knuckles 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	8	feels quite tight just like your shoulders probably do. So 	just 	work over that. Just give it some love and 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	7	Then to complete working on the upper zone, we'll 	just 	work along the inside of the big toe, which 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	7	are where the condition called lateral epicondylitis occurs. If you 	just 	work these tissues with the "Star," you can find 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	7	thyroid, the pituitary. It holds so many beneficial points. So, 	just 	work your way all across. If you need to 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	more time around the hip area you can do that 	just 	make sure again you're wrapping around towards the 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	9	work over either with my thumbs, palms, or knuckles to 	just 	make sure all those areas of tension have been 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	9	re pregnant before you come in so that we can 	just 	make sure that we have a therapist who actually 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	9	sides and then we're gonna do the same thing 	just 	make sure you get around that elbow that likes 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	8	the foot they could feel extremely tight. So you could 	just 	go ahead and pay a lot of attention just 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	8	gave you or you hadn't heard of before, you 	just 	go ahead and write that down and it will 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	6	those substyles they're actually applying. So if somebody's 	just 	doing deep Swedish, but they don't really have 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	6	the way up you can spend more time i'm 	just 	doing it for the sake of the video and 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	6	relief quickly. ly than somebody, let's say, who's 	just 	doing Swedish massage. It's not always the case. 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	6	I returned to my normal healthy diet.  So, I'm 	just 	doing this to assist me ensuring that all of 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	6	some holds all along this area.  Finally, we'll now 	just 	go down to the ankle.  It feels really nice 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	6	the thigh wraps around for the lower leg you can 	just 	go straight up the back because of those lymph 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	6	for is creating a series of sessions such that not 	just 	the individual sessions will produce results, but they they 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	6	here is that we're stretching the connective tissue not 	just 	the muscles. Fashcia is the stuff that glues all 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	6	that you do not have any contact with their undergarments, 	just 	the sheet. We’re going to start the dry 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	6	with the 90 minutes that are spread out. And that's 	just 	the way that I've seen it happen for 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	6	the foot. We could then just finish off this portion 	just 	working across the small intestine and the bladder.  You 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	6	get comfortable with what you're doing if you're 	just 	working nights and weekends you're going to see 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	6	the shoulders as well. So this area that we're 	just 	working on here underneath the little toe is the 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	6	the top of the foot and the toes we're 	just 	working our way upwards if someone has swelling on 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	8	lower it down to the top of the glal separation 	just 	so that we're um exposing some of the 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	8	something that I'm not personally trained in. So just 	just 	so that we make that distinction and I get 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	7	as possible to help you all study in addition to 	just 	kind of going over all of that in these 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	7	ass kicked uh that is also kind of normal and 	just 	kind of part of the process is that it 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	7	a moment around the knee same thing like the elbow 	just 	kind of working around the bony areas and then 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	7	protect my clothing. I've just popped a towel down 	just 	so that no oil gets on there. I'm 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	5	you're having more hormonal problems, then as I am 	just 	here, focus along the base. If you're having 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	5	feels quite congested.  The area that I'm pointing to 	just 	here is a really powerful point to hold on 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	5	foot. Apply some oil or lotion as I've done 	just 	here just to protect my clothing. I've just 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	5	their spine; it's okay to work in that area, 	just 	don't apply a lot of pressure. When I 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	5	that's super rewarding and a lot of jobs you 	just 	don't get that immediate feedback uh you might 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	4	and root words here we can see what biceps means 	just 	by these words by meaning to SEPs is derived 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	could just go ahead and pay a lot of attention 	just 	by working gently over and just holding into them. 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	4	teachers and working on your co-students if you can 	just 	get as many hours under your hands before you 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	use the thumbs on the feet because you can really 	just 	get into all the little areas. Work the toes 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	like your shoulders probably do. So just work over that. 	Just 	give it some love and make sure you take 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	will explain exactly where the reflexology points are located and 	just 	give you a little bit of understanding as to 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	the first area that we'll work on will be 	just 	in the curve of the big toe, which is 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	4	you can have some crossover, but some people are trained 	just 	in time massage and not in Swedish massage, traditional 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	4	massage or some names like that which really I are 	just 	something the spa came up with to brand the 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	4	or with certain days of the week so that's 	just 	something to to know about the industry it's 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	4	to the lower arm and so wrist to the elbow 	just 	use as much hand surface as you can for 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	4	this just because you have long nails. You absolutely can. 	Just 	use the knuckle instead.  I love to work over 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	3	this playlist, which is called MBLEx Prep with Michelle, is 	just 	all about that MBLEx. So, I've been trying 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	that, you know, quite frankly are unnecessary. And this is 	just 	an opinion. I'm sure there's plenty of 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	3	your clients might find this technique slightly ticklish if so 	just 	apply slightly firmer pressure and then once you've 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	just so that no oil gets on there. I'm 	just 	applying this nice and slowly. Making contact with the 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	normal massage will probably move your lymph through the system 	just 	as much as anything, you know. Uh, and so 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	focus in all along the heel.  The sciatic nerve runs 	just 	at the base of the heel, right in the 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	please don't think that you can't do this 	just 	because you have long nails. You absolutely can. Just 
Effleurage and Petrissage.txt	3	hand and as we come round the scapula we're 	just 	being Mindful and we're trying to run our 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	into the muscle tissue, you're really trying to get 	just 	below the skin layer and move the lymph through 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	on the outside and the inside. I’m going to 	just 	bend the client's foot a little bit while 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	I am done with one area, I like to always 	just 	brush towards the heart before I go on to 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	are, we can go ahead and begin. So, I'm 	just 	cleaning the foot here with a wipe. I have 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	so whatever someone can reach for and spend time with 	just 	direct towards the armpit on the other side and 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	3	is totally false it's a great great job it 	just 	does take that first couple of years of paying 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	go five or so times in each area i've 	just 	done about three just for timing of the video 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	leg again you can do this sitting up it's 	just 	easier to see on the video laying down but 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	their positional relationship to one another so it's not 	just 	easy to say like well this object is here 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	a phagocyte will have foreign debris and come in and 	just 	engulf it into itself and then dissolve it usually 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	you're laying down leg in the ear that works 	just 	fine too or leg on a bolster and done 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	spine on the inside of the foot. We could then 	just 	finish off this portion just working across the small 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	times in each area i've just done about three 	just 	for timing of the video and then we're 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	that we keep the client modest. You're going to 	just 	gather the sheets in your hands, place them on 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	certified lymphedema therapist to get personalized guidance  because this is 	just 	general education only [Music]  now we're going to 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	with that whole area we can finish with some more 	just 	gentle circles directly in the armpit and then once 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	happen for thousands of clients over my career. So that 	just 	gives you an idea of like how to help 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	quite figure out how to do that, you absolutely can 	just 	glide the thumb along.  Then to complete working on 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	3	of those terms put together. Arthritis, which is—we've 	just 	got the subject and we've got the suffix. 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	m off for the festive period, I've let them 	just 	grow a little bit. Um, however, when I return 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	s the direction the lymph vessels run so we're 	just 	guiding the fluid in that direction  five times or 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	a literal diffuser for aromatherapy or oils or if you 	just 	have like a can of some spray goods some 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	you can do are just some nice brisk rubs.  This 	just 	helps to wake up over seven and a half 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	3	can make a big difference. I really encourage people to 	just 	hold on to these points and massage them gently. 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	a lot of attention just by working gently over and 	just 	holding into them. You could even again go ahead 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	re gonna look at which we'll see it's 	just 	I feel it's a little important to remember 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	also something that I'm not personally trained in. So 	just 	just so that we make that distinction and I 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	3	almost daily basis it's totally worth sticking through but 	just 	know that if you know what challenges you're 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	3	through that and so that's the first challenge is 	just 	knowing that your first 3 to 6 months minimum aren't 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	using vertical motions. The pressure should not be too deep—	just 	light to medium pressure.  Really focus on any dry 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	is actually light work. It's very fast. It's 	just 	meant to warm up the tissue and prepare somebody 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	stones as tools to kind of work the tissue. Great. 	Just 	not my cup of tea, but it can be 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	so much for being here today. Before we begin, please 	just 	note this video is for educational and relaxation only. 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	have these items on our menu at Bodyworks DW and 	just 	offer you 60 or 90 minutes.  ### Swedish Massage So, let's 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	move on to the foot and the toes so working 	just 	on the top of the foot and top of 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	massage therapists is nobody's going to be stuck in 	just 	one box of I only do Swedish, I only 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	the heart and the upper digestive system.  So we can 	just 	open up this area with our thumbs and have 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	on here underneath the little toe is the shoulder. So 	just 	pay some attention there. And again, you may find 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	and balanced. If you've got any questions for me, 	just 	pop them in the comments below.  Please give a 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	done just here just to protect my clothing. I've 	just 	popped a towel down just so that no oil 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	the heart and also do circular motions up the body.  	Just 	really promote that circulation and lymphatic drainage. You can 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	3	is totally free. The link is in the description below. 	Just 	scroll past some of the other freebies and paid 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	to work in the opposite direction.  But here you can 	just 	see me working up and then I'll go 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	And just whilst we're here as well, I'll 	just 	show you that running along the inside of the 
Circadia University Body Treatment.txt	3	to see the client's skin turn red; it's 	just 	showing you that it's promoting more circulation within 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	of a blockage in these areas as I have indulged 	just 	slightly in some richer foods than I normally would.  
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	Some other nice finishing moves that you can do are 	just 	some nice brisk rubs.  This just helps to wake 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	as much as you want then we're going to 	just 	spend just a moment around the knee same thing 
Benefits of a full-body lymphatic m.txt	3	into the arm and so we don't want to 	just 	start with the fingers because it makes sense to 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	3	keeping my body limber keeping my joints oiled and not 	just 	statically being stuck in one place all day which 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	that is just a good generate general cell that is 	just 	stuffed full of all these organelles to show you 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	3	ve got neuropathy. That's another one where it's 	just 	subject and suffix. Neuro meaning nerve and pathy is 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	of things like hot stone massage, which to me is 	just 	super gimmicky. It feels really nice. They heat the 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	the hips, legs and lower back. So I like to 	just 	support my foot here so that it doesn't 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	reflexology.  So, please check them out if you wish.  Again, 	just 	thank you so much for joining me. I really, 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	so when it comes to the passive well it's 	just 	that it's passive it doesn't require energy 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	working on it?" That's probably a better approach than 	just 	trying to research all these different styles and really 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	3	spot that's like a trigger point and I'll 	just 	wait and I'll sit there just like I'
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	begin to press specific points, it's really nice to 	just 	warm up the foot. Apply some oil or lotion 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	3	osteo site so both Saito and site means cell is 	just 	whichever end of the word its place that is 
Nervous System Reset Self foot re.txt	3	and give attention to the areas that you need.  And 	just 	whilst we're here as well, I'll just 
