Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7):1353–1375. doi: 10.1093/pm/pnw099
The Impact of Massage Therapy on Function in Pain Populations—A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials: Part I, Patients Experiencing Pain in the General Population
Cindy Crawford 1, Courtney Boyd 1,✉, Charmagne F Paat 1, Ashley Price 1, Lea Xenakis 1, EunMee Yang 1, Weimin Zhang 1; Evidence for Massage Therapy (EMT) Working Group 1
Author information
Article notes
Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC4925170  PMID: 27165971
Abstract
Purpose
Pain is multi-dimensional and may be better addressed through a holistic, biopsychosocial approach. Massage therapy is commonly practiced among patients seeking pain management; however, its efficacy is unclear. This systematic review and meta-analysis is the first to rigorously assess the quality of massage therapy research and evidence for its efficacy in treating pain, function-related and health-related quality of life outcomes across all pain populations.

Methods
Key databases were searched from inception through February 2014. Eligible randomized controlled trials were assessed for methodological quality using SIGN 50 Checklist. Meta-analysis was applied at the outcome level. A diverse steering committee interpreted the results to develop recommendations.

Results
Sixty high quality and seven low quality studies were included in the review. Results demonstrate massage therapy effectively treats pain compared to sham [standardized mean difference (SMD) = −.44], no treatment (SMD = −1.14), and active (SMD = −0.26) comparators. Compared to active comparators, massage therapy was also beneficial for treating anxiety (SMD = −0.57) and health-related quality of life (SMD = 0.14).

Conclusion
Based on the evidence, massage therapy, compared to no treatment, should be strongly recommended as a pain management option. Massage therapy is weakly recommended for reducing pain, compared to other sham or active comparators, and improving mood and health-related quality of life, compared to other active comparators. Massage therapy safety, research challenges, how to address identified research gaps, and necessary next steps for implementing massage therapy as a viable pain management option are discussed.

Keywords: Systematic Review, Meta-Analysis, Massage Therapy, Pain, Function, Health-Related Quality of Life

Discussion
This systematic review and meta-analysis found that massage therapy may be beneficial, with minimal safety concerns, for treating various pain and function-related outcomes in pain populations. Specifically, results demonstrate the efficacy of massage therapy compared to sham, no treatment and active comparators. Compared to active comparators, massage therapy was also beneficial for treating anxiety and health-related quality of life. This is the first systematic review attempting to investigate different outcomes of patient-reported functional domains (e.g., sleep, stress, mood, activity) and HrQoL across the spectrum of pain conditions from a patient-centric perspective. Additionally, this review examines the complexity of different taxonomies of massage to propose a more coherent definition of massage for the field, and suggests a set of reporting requirements essential for translatability and reproducibility for future work. There are methodological flaws that are apparent across studies addressed in this report, as well as large heterogeneity that cannot be ignored across studies which ultimately lowers the overall quality of the evidence; the latter, however, is expected to improve with education and adherence to clear reporting requirements. It is worth acknowledging that this review also only assessed the evidence reported in peer-reviewed RCTs available to date. Valuable knowledge can be gained through the evaluation of other study designs (e.g., qualitative research). In addition, although a growing body of evidence based research emphasizes the importance of human touch in facilitating healing and recovery from pain, the underlying mechanisms by which massage affects the body are still being investigated [82–84]. Until then, the development of clinical guidelines is cautioned against for massage therapy.

Methodology
Overall, the majority of these studies were high or acceptable quality. While most aspects of internal validity were adequately addressed, many studies failed either to successfully carry out or describe allocation concealment and intention-to-treat processes. The majority of most studies, moreover, failed to describe model validity (i.e., staff, places and facilities used) making it difficult to completely understand how these studies may be replicated and massage therapy implemented.

Because blinding helps reduce the introduction of potential biases, it is an essential component of clinical trials. Of the 67 studies included in this review, a large number did not mention blinding procedures. While this review excluded blinding from its risk of bias assessment due to these challenges, the authors did track whether studies mentioned blinding procedures; regardless of whether blinding is possible, authors should always clearly state who was blinded, or if blinding was not carried out, discuss attempts made toward blinding or why blinding was not possible.

Standards for Reporting Interventions in Clinical Trials of Massage: Proposal to Develop STRICT-M Checklist
Currently, there are no standard criteria or guidelines for reporting massage clinical trials. This is a noticeable gap across all studies assessed in this review. For example, while type of practitioner was mentioned in almost all studies, practitioner qualifications were only mentioned by 14.9%. Although practitioners’ qualifications are likely associated with trial efficacy, specifically an improvement in outcomes [85], this concept is difficult to explore as this information is typically underreported [41,86]. Similarly, setting was only described by 43.3% of the studies, resulting in poor model validity and an inability to fully understand how the review’s findings could be generalized to other settings. While components of the massage interventions, for the most part, were well-described, the control groups lacked such data. Replication and validation of the trial’s results are nearly impossible without this essential reporting information. Researchers and clinicians, moreover, are unable to make firm recommendations to patients and policy based on inconsistent or missing data.

The authors propose that in addition to adhering to the CONSORT guidelines for uniform reporting, the field should consider the development of a set of reporting standards (e.g., the authors’ proposed STRICT-M, see Table 3) for reporting of massage trials and include specific items regarding the various details of the massage intervention. Doing so would help standardize the language used to describe massage, thus enabling readers to better understand how massage is defined and how the intervention, if deemed efficacious, could be replicated in real-life. As noted in the evidence synthesis, there is a large amount of heterogeneity among the included studies that needs to be accounted for as it greatly restricted the EMT Working Group from making solid conclusions about the value of massage therapy. Adhering to guidelines, similar to the proposed STRICT-M Checklist outlined in this report, would help move this field forward.

Proposed Definition of Massage Therapy
There is wide variety in the types, styles, dosaging, naming conventions, and practitioner qualifications of interventions labeled as “massage therapy.” For example, while drug trials undergo systematic phase trials to determine consistent and adequate dosing, massage trials do not carry out such processes and often do not provide rationale for dose-related variables [41] resulting in inconsistent dosages. Further, not only do practitioners vary by type, with massage falling within the scope of practice for many different healthcare providers (e.g., massage therapists, nurses, physicians, chiropractors, physical therapists) but their qualifications vary, as each state has their own set of requirements with some requiring a set amount of education hours and others having no such standards. Given this wide range of variability, it is no surprise that there are numerous different types of treatments that fall under the umbrella term “massage.”

In order to encompass the wide spectrum of techniques called “massage,” the EMT Working Group spent considerable time during protocol development defining and conceptualizing what constitutes “massage therapy.” It is important that steps toward creating a common language are taken so that future researchers are better able to select techniques appropriate to their research and draw more meaningful conclusions. In 2006, Sherman et al. created a new classification system to describe the work massage therapists provide when giving a massage to patients with musculoskeletal pain [29]. It is the hope that using consistent terminology will facilitate standardized reporting of massage interventions, so that more sound research can be conducted and more definitive conclusions can be drawn.

In addition, there is debate as to what constitutes an appropriate control for massage therapy. For example, no treatment control groups do not control for nonspecific effects of attention and touch; resulting in massage interventions tending to be more successful than such controls. Wait list controls do not control for placebo effects and treatment as usual controls may assign individuals to care that they may have already previously tried and found unsuccessful. Consequently, massage should be assessed against controls that are equal and, for all intents and purposes, identical in order to ensure effects are truly attributable to massage. Sham controls (e.g., sham massage, light touch) are promising; however, there is debate about whether touch control is a true placebo as touch can elicit nonspecific psychological effects. In this review, the authors lumped any sham treatment (e.g., light touch, simple touch, sham massage, sham acupuncture, sham ultrasound), recognizing that there exists heterogeneity across these studies. Future research should focus on identifying appropriate sham controls to truly ascertain the effect of massage therapy beyond that of placebo, and how much the effect could be due to the therapeutic alliance encountered [87]. These are questions that still remain.

Comparative Effectiveness
Comparative effectiveness research is an important part of future work for massage therapy. However, investing in comparative effectiveness research in this area is cautioned until standard guidelines (e.g., STRICT-M Checklist) are developed to improve reporting and allow for replication and standardized outcomes addressing the full patient perspective are used. Cost, patient preferences and values, safety, and benefits all need to be taken into account before developing a comparative effectiveness protocol. In fact, before delving into such research, the authors recommend first forming a panel to design a large, multi-site protocol that addresses the gaps (e.g., heterogeneity of intervention and control/comparator groups, lack of consistent reporting) described throughout this report in order to clearly understand the efficacy of massage therapy. Once efficacy has been determined, a committee can begin identifying appropriate and cost-worthy comparators. This review included many small scale trials comparing massage to various other active comparators, however, clear descriptions and justification for the use of such comparators were noticeably absent in many trials. Research needs to focus on identifying which comparators are most cost-effective and feasible in order to begin utilizing the same comparators in studies. Until then, comparators will remain heterogeneous which presents challenge with interpretation and inevitably stalls the field from moving forward.

Patient-Reported Function Outcomes
In order to document societal cost savings and approach healthcare from the patient perspective, it is critical for massage, and the CIM community at large, to utilize standardized, state-of the science, patient-reported outcomes as they conduct research in order to enhance the rigor of the field. Not only would a wide variety of stakeholders in the US healthcare system take note, but replication and meta-analysis pooling of standard outcomes for future research would become possible. Often, the best way patients can judge the effectiveness of treatments is by self-reported symptoms, functioning and well-being. The National Institutes of Health’s (NIH’s) Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) [38] has developed reliable and valid patient-reported items to evaluate medical interventions for persons with a wide range of chronic diseases and demographic characteristics. The Pain Assessment Screening Tool and Outcomes Registry (PASTOR) [37] is an example of a clinical pain assessment tool that utilizes PROMIS domains in order to standardize approaches to pain management. Such assessment tools are not only patient-centered as they are based on patients’ perspectives and have the ability to be tailored to the specific individual, but are also typically less time consuming than using multiple outcome assessment tools. As the field moves toward patient-centered care and with the growing realization that pain is complex and needs to be approached through a more holistic view (i.e., accounting for functional outcomes as they relate to pain), researchers should consider using assessment tools based on PROMIS domains in order to produce meaningful, translatable results that can be combined across studies.

This current review considered PROMIS and PASTOR domains when evaluating patient- reported outcomes of the included studies. While the majority of the included studies reported using valid and reliable outcomes (see Table 1), a complete examination of these outcomes was outside the scope of the current review and requires further investigation. Because different studies have different critical outcomes, and researchers differ in their preferences for what outcome measures are sensitive to the population at hand, heterogeneity is a large issue with interpreting results. A standardized, validated, uniform tool that combines all functional domains at an individual level is necessary to dissolve the problem of heterogeneity and allow for easier pooling and interpretation of studies.

While the authors relied on a cut-off point of 20-mm for the VAS as a clinically important reduction in pain, this was noted to be interpreted with caution. As detailed throughout, what constitutes clinical importance may be better addressed through the whole-person perspective, beyond that of a reduction in pain to something more globally measured and including psychological, physical, social, spiritual functioning in addition to pain.

Patient Preferences
According to the 2007 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) [88], 10,000 individuals 18 years of age and over reported using massage therapy, most commonly for musculoskeletal conditions in 2002; this number has since grown with over 18,000 reporting massage use in 2007. Despite the flaws in methodological and reporting quality and the wide heterogeneity among the available studies published to date, patients are actively seeking support through massage therapy. Unfortunately, very little is known about users’ preferences and the decision-making process for engaging in such a therapy.

There has also been very little research in terms of cost and how or if this influences patient preferences. Three studies [63,75,89] captured in this review performed cost analyses. One study [89] reported comprehensive massage therapy had the most benefit but cost more than soft-tissue manipulation alone. Another study [75] demonstrated that costs of outpatient services were lower in the massage group than Traditional Chinese Medical acupuncture and self-care educational materials. Although this difference was not statistically significant, authors report that initial massage costs might be offset by reduction in subsequent care, and that the combination of massage and self-care materials might prove to be particularly cost-effective. Conversely, the final study [63] determined that there was no evidence that massage treatments reduced costs of back pain related healthcare services during a one year post-treatment period.

Research shows that patients with strong relative expectations for a specific treatment tend to have better functional outcomes if they received that treatment [90], but measures recording patient expectation are often missing from clinical trials. Only three studies captured in this review measured participants’ expectation regarding treatment success. Two studies [63,66] reported fairly high expectations for massage. The third article [91] measured participants’ confidence in the interventions’ success but failed to report the relevant results.

Clinical Practice Guidelines
Clinical guidelines are an essential ingredient for informing appropriate healthcare decisions. They have the power to translate scientific research findings into recommendations for clinical practice and potentially enhance healthcare quality and outcomes [92]. Clinical practice guidelines take into account not only the scientific research findings collated through systematic reviews on efficacy, but also the benefit/harm ratios, cost, acceptability and feasibility. This review has outlined next steps to guide future research in filling in the current research gaps in order to allow for translation to occur. Once these gaps are appropriately addressed, the field will be able to move toward developing clinical practice guidelines that can be trusted. Patients deserve to have this work completed; pain management is a rising concern and clinicians need to fill their “tool bags” with complementary options that will benefit their patients’ overall wellbeing. The field of massage therapy can be empowered to charge forward with the recommendations outlined in this review in order to begin to move toward effective translation.

Next Steps for Researchers and Decision Makers in Chronological Order
Consider this review’s proposed definition of massage therapy to help resolve the confusion regarding what constitutes “massage therapy.”

Educate researchers about and ensure adherence to the CONSORT Checklist to enhance reporting and quality of future work.

Study the proposed STRICT-M Checklist, invest resources to formally develop STRICT-M for the field and adapt these criteria for future protocol development.

Study PROMIS and PASTOR to learn their functionality; consider the whole-patient perspective in all clinical research and use these tools in future work.

Invest resources in a large, multi-site study examining the efficacy of massage therapy compared to an appropriate sham treatment once items 1–4 are accomplished and ensure those components are embedded in the robust protocol; track patient preferences and values, expectations of patients and clinicians, and safety.

Explore appropriate comparators for comparative effectiveness research once efficacy is clearly demonstrated in item 5; assemble a diverse group of stakeholders, including patients, to provide input during protocol development; track cost, patient preferences and values, expectation, and safety; conduct appropriate comparative effectiveness research.

Develop clinical practice guidelines for the field of massage therapy.