File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	21	created?  John: Yes, ma'am. I was inducted into the 	Massage 	Therapy Hall of Fame, and this is the "Massage 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	21	the Massage Therapy Hall of Fame, and this is the "	Massage 	Therapy Hall of Fame Tool." This is a stainless 
Massage Therapy Dos and Don'ts.txt	20	you should and should not do when it comes to 	massage 	therapy is expert John Lewis. Thanks for coming in, 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	20	honestly is a really big benefit for me in closing 	massage 	therapy is really a great career trust me I'
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	20	Uh, and so that's how I would define medical 	massage 	therapy. It can in use a lot of different 
Massage Basics Anatomy Overview Pt.txt	20	common van gogh cytosis is usually for the relation to 	massage 	therapy it's usually the process are you more 
The FULL GUIDE to ALL MASSAGE STYLE.txt	19	sort of sit in the middle of that and traditional 	massage 	therapy and mix in a lot of other things 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	19	why it's important. Now, in your Federation of State 	Massage 	Therapy Board's exam content outline that you could 
Unlock Medical Terminology for Mass.txt	19	that in this webinar.  Why does the Federation of State 	Massage 	Therapy Boards think that it's important for you 
PROS & CONS of a Massage Therapy Ca.txt	19	PROS & CONS of a 	Massage 	Therapy Career | Massage Therapist Career Tips  https://www.youtube.

File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	231	view but went further, noting how important massage is, saying “	massage 	therapy is a luxury for some people, and a 
Editorial.txt	231	s image. To the public, it may be unclear whether 	massage 	therapy is a health service, a wellness experience, or 
Editorial.txt	231	the result is uncertainty. Potential clients may not understand whether 	massage 	therapy is a clinical intervention, a wellness service, or 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	231	installment scheme was preferred by MTs and massage clients.  Conclusion 	Massage 	therapy is a valuable health and wellness tool for 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	231	that had greater than low certainty of evidence.  Abstract Importance 	Massage 	therapy is a popular treatment that has been advocated 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	231	rated the evidence low to very low certainty of evidence.  	Massage 	therapy is a broad term that is inclusive of 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	228	Smith, PhD1  1Southern Institute of Technology, Invercargill, New Zealand Background 	Massage 	therapy is an increasingly utilized user-pays service in 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	228	uses massage therapy as both a preventive and restorative measure. “	Massage 	therapy is an integral part of our comprehensive program,” 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	228	soft tissue work and small windows for treatment,” Fonseca says.  	Massage 	therapy is an integral part of our comprehensive program.   
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	227	progress thinking in this area for MTs.  CONCLUSIONS Accessing regular 	massage 	therapy is too expensive for many people in Aotearoa 

