The Effects of Abdominal "I LOV U" Massage along with Lifestyle Training on Constipation and Distension in the Elderly with Stroke

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/348569146_The_Effects_of_Abdominal_I_LOV_U_Massage_along_with_Lifestyle_Training_on_Constipation_and_Distension_in_the_Elderly_with_Stroke

Zahra Fekri1, Nahid Aghebati2, Tahereh Sadeghi3, Mohammd taghi Farzadfard4  1- M.Sc.  Student  of  Geriatric  Nursing,  Department  of Medical  Surgical  nursing,  School of Nursing and Midwifery, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran  2- PhD of nursing,  Assistant Professor, Nursing and Midwifery Care Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran   Correspondence aghebatin@mums.ac.ir , Telefax 009851385911511   ORCID: 0000-0003-1600-4412 3- PhD of nursing,  Assistant Professor, Nursing and Midwifery Care Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran 4- Neurology (specialist),  Assistant  Professor, Medical School, , Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran   Highlights   Using the "I LOV U" abdominal massage along with lifestyle training in 10 day can shorten the time duration of constipation, decrease the distention and increase the food tolerance rate after the stroke in elderly.  Using "I LOV U" abdominal massage along with lifestyle training can help the elderly take less laxatives to treat the constipation.     Abstract Introduction: Constipation and distension are dominant gastrointestinal problems after stroke in the elderly. Always they are treated by the use of laxatives and fibers. Abdominal massage along with a healthy lifestyle can be a solution. Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the effect of abdominal massage and lifestyle training on constipation and distention of the elderly with stroke. Method: This study was a randomized clinical trial that was conducted on elderly patients with stroke at Qaem hospital of Mashhad, Iran. 68 patients were randomly allocated into control (n= 34) and intervention (n=34) groups in 2017-2018. Finally 29 elderly in the intervention and 34 in the control group completed the study. Intervention included the abdominal massage by using "I LOV U" method along with lifestyle education. Each abdominal massage lasted for 15 minutes, twice daily for ten days that was performed at first session by the researcher and 
 2 then  continued  by  the  key  care  giver.  Data  were  collected  by  the  demographic  form, constipation assessment score (CAS), distension measurement tool (meter), and food tolerance evaluation checklist. Results: The results indicated that both groups were homogeneous in demographic variables (P>  0.05).  The  repeated  ANOVA  showed  a  more  significant  decrease  in  abdominal circumference of the intervention group during the 10- days study (P=0.029).The Friedman test showed a significant difference in  frequency of defecation in two groups in 10- day study (P<0.0001). Therefore the CAS Score was significantly decreased in intervention group more than the control group (0.30<0.98<1.59, P=0.001, EF=0.44). The food tolerance frequencies through  Gavage  (P=0.20),  and  also  orally  (P<0.001)  were  significantly  improved  in  the intervention group.  Conclusion: According to results, the abdominal massage along with lifestyle training could improve constipation and distension and  also increase  food intake tolerance in the elderly patients with stroke.  Keywords: Abdominal massage; Lifestyle education; Elderly; Stroke  1. Introduction  Nowadays, the phenomenon of aging and its related problems is a very important issue that has attracted the attention of scholars of various sciences (1). According to the United Nations Information Center, 26% of the Iran's population will be over 60 years of age by 2050; hence, paying attention to needs  of the  elderly is a social necessity  (2). The elderly suffer  from gastrointestinal complications such as constipation and distension due to the aging process. On the  other  hand,  if  they  suffer  from  nervous  system  diseases  such  as  stroke,  the  risk of gastrointestinal complications increases in them (3). The annual incidence of first-time stroke is 139 (95% CI, 128 to 149) per 100 000; for men, 144 (95% CI, 128 to 159), and for women, 133 (95% CI, 118 to 148) in  Iran (4). Constipation is a common gastrointestinal complication in stroke patients(5). According to a systematic review the incidence of constipation in patients with stroke varied from 29%  to 
 3 79%(6). Therefore,  an  intervention, which can  reduce  gastrointestinal complications have many health benefits for the elderly with stroke (6).  Accordingly,  Li and  colleagues concluded  that despite  the fact  that the  constipation is  a common complication in nervous system diseases especially in  elderly, there is no adequate investigation about the treatment and management of constipation in elderly patients  with stroke (6).  Thus, the common solution in these patients is to use different laxatives with short-term effects, to which patients become accustomed over time, while imposing high costs and complications on patients (7).  As nurses are always the first line people in touch with the stroke elderly patients in the hospital, they should implement some interventions independently to alleviate the patient's constipation and gastrointestinal complications(8). Therefore using some non-pharmacological methods to alleviate constipation and distention that can be used by the nurses independently is necessary (9). Abdominal message is  a non-pharmacological  nursing intervention  (10, 11), that has  been suggested and applied recently for the treatment of constipation and distension in neonates (12), Parkinson's patients(13), and cancer patients (14). However, results of a review study on the constipation consider the efficacy of abdominal massage subject to further studies, while it is believed that  there  is no  most effective abdominal massage technique  for relieving  the constipation(15), so that the clockwise massage by hand on abdomen with low to moderate pressure is more common(11).  However, Tekgündüz et al. utilized an abdominal massage in preterm infants by applying a clockwise direction over the intestines and colons on the abdominal wall (I LOV U). Their massage technique was directed along the rout of bowel movements which was significantly 
 4 effective  on preterm-  infants  fool tolerance(16).  Although  this was  an  effective  massage technique which was done by the parents, it can't be generalized to the other populations like elderly. On the  other hand, low fluid diet, low fiber, and  sedentary life are predisposing factors of constipation  in  the  elderly(7).  Some  studies  have  pointed  out  the  effectiveness  of  diet modification and constipation improvement activity (17-19). As lifestyle training is also a nursing intervention, if patients have no good diets, sufficient activity  and  movement,  massage  alone  is  unlikely  to  improve  the  patients'  long-term gastrointestinal complications(20).  Thus it is necessary to  input some  educations such  as modifying the diet and considering sufficient activities in addition to an effective abdominal message in nursing process(9).  According to  the researches there are some  clinical trial studies about  the effectiveness of multiple forms of abdominal message on the constipation (9, 10, 21, 22), some systematic (7) and critical reviews (17, 20) about the methods of alleviating constipation and gastrointestinal complications in elderly, intensive care unit (23, 24) and stroke patients(8). Also there is a narrative review which suggests a guideline proposed using abdominal massage along with modifying the life style to relieve constipation and distention without applying it in a clinical trial  (25).  Despite  the  multiple  studies  on  this  subject,  it  is  considered  that  the  bowel management strategies for constipation in adults especially in elderly with stroke are limited. The available evidence suggests that structured bowel programs and nurse-led interventions in bowel care have a significant effect  in improving bowel evacuations,  which merits further evaluation(8). 
 5 Therefore the  present  study aimed to determine  the  impact of the "I  LOV U" abdominal massage  along  with  a  lifestyle  modification  training  on  constipation  and  distention  of hospitalized elderly patients with stroke.  1.2 Research objectives - Determining the  effect of  "I LOV  U" abdominal  massage along with lifestyle training on the constipation of elderly with stroke - Determining the  effect of  "I LOV  U" abdominal  massage along with lifestyle training on the distention of elderly with stroke - Determining the  effect of  "I LOV  U" abdominal  massage along with lifestyle training on the food tolerance (as a secondary outcome) of elderly with stroke      2. Materials and Methods    2.1 Study design and sample selection The present study  was a randomized, pre-test  posttest non-blind controlled clinical  trial in elderly patients with stroke. The research environment was acute neurological ward of Qaem Hospital of Mashhad, Iran from Aguste 2017 to February 2018.  The sample size was obtained 26 in each group according to a study (26) with regard to type I error: 0.05 and test power 80.  But in the process of the study the researchers  found that the duration of  the constipation improvement in  patients were different. Some of  the patients' constipations  improved after three or four days massage in intervention group. Then the researchers decided to increase the sample size to decide more confidently about the effectiveness of massage on the duration of the constipation improvement time to catch higher effect size. Then by considering the attrition 34 samples were considered for each group.  
 6 In the research duration time about 100 stroke elderly were admitted to the acute neurologic ward. But 68 patients had the inclusion criteria. 34 were allocated in intervention and 34 were allocated in control group. To do the randomization, the randomization.com website were used (figure1). At first  100 randomized digits  from 1-100 achieved from the site. Randomly the 50 digits considered for intervention and 50 for control group (100 digits were considered because of the attritions). The random digits kept in two separate pockets. Then from the beginning of  the study the  first patient that  had all of  the inclusion criteria numbered as 1. The researcher saw the random digits, if the number 1 were in the intervention list the patient would considered to be in the intervention group, if the number 1 were in the control list the patient would be in the control group. Then the second patient 2, third 3 and so on. This method of sampling were continued until completing all of the 68 patients in each group. The elderly were selected according to the inclusion criteria:  age: (65 < age < 90) , having a definitive diagnosis of  Ischemic stroke; going through the acute time of the stroke at least 72h; score 5  and higher in constipation  assessment score (CAS); Glasgow coma scale above 7; Having a key caregiver. Exclusion criteria were involved: unwillingness to participate in the study; the patient death; previous abdominal or pelvic surgery; disorders such as pancreatitis, gastrointestinal ulcer or cancer, liver or kidney failure; ulcers on abdominal wall; a situation when the key caregiver could not continue abdominal message more than 3 times; being NPO; a situation when a semi-upright position is prohibited for the patient; the patient shows the symptoms of acute abdomen. During the study 5 patients in the control group didn't' continued the research. 2 died, 3 didn't continued the  abdominal message training.  Therefore, data  analysis was performed on  29 elderly in the intervention group, and 34 elderly in the control group (Figure1).     2.3 instruments The research instruments included demographic information and disease history form, the constipation assessment scale (CAS), Meter, Food intake and defecation daily checklist. 
 7 2.3.1 Demographic and disease information form. This form was structured by the researchers according to the literature. That has two sections. First: the closed questions about the personal information. Second questions about the disease information such as the type and site of the stroke, chronic diseases, drug history.  2.3.2 Constipation Assessment Scale (CAS)  CAS was used to assess patient's constipation. The tool has 8 questions with 3 grades. Grade 0 means  that the patient has no  constipation. Grade 1 means that the patient  has moderate constipation. Grade 2 means severe constipation. If the patients get a 1-4 score in the CAS, they have mild constipation. Score 5-9 in the CAS tool indicates moderate constipation. Score 10  and  above  indicates  severe  constipation.  The  tool  assesses  the  clinical  severity  of constipation,  including  8  characteristics:  Frequency  of  defecation;  abdominal  distension, bloating and changes in gas excretion; fluid secretion around the stools during the defecation; feeling of fullness and pelvic pressure; anal pain during defecation; low stool volume; and failure to defecate for 24  hours.  It is a valid scientific  tool  which was  first designed  and psychometrically evaluated by Mc Millan and Williams in 1989 to evaluate the severity of constipation. Furthermore, Ghaffari et al. (2007) confirmed the instrument translation validity in  Persian. They confirmed  its reliability  with a 24-hour  interval test-retest  with Pearson correlation coefficients of r =% 82 and r =% 84. In the present study, the reliability was confirmed by obtaining the kappa coefficient of higher than 0.7 by inter-observer reliability. CAS was completed before the intervention and ten days after.  2.3.2 Meter To measure the distention, the researcher measured the abdominal round by a meter every day in the morning. 
 8 2.3.3 Food intake and defecation daily checklist The checklist was designed by the researchers. It was concluded three parts. First the report of daily  defecation  and  the  abdominal  physical  exam  by  the  researcher.  Second  part  was concluded the reports of daily food intake in patients that had NG-tube. The report of 12h food intake such as the gastric residual, gavage type and amount of food was written. Third part was concluded the reports of daily food intake in patients that had oral intake.  The reports of 12h food intake such as the amount and type of food, and also if the patient had nausea or vomiting was assessed. The content and face validity of the checklist, was confirmed by the help of 10 faculty members (gastrointestinal nurses and specialists) of Mashhad university of medical sciences.     2.4 Procedure  After completing  the informed consent,  the elderly were  allocated  to  the experimental or control group. Then the demographic and disease form, and the CAS were completed by the help of the patient's key care giver. Then the intervention were started in the experimental group in ten days. The checklist were completed daily. The CAS scale were completed before the intervention and ten days after.  Have  researchers  received  any  training  for  abdominal  massage?If  they  have  this course, please specify here. (R1)       2.4.1 Implementation steps in experimental group 
 9 The intervention in experimental group were divided in to two parts. Abdominal message and life style training. 2.4.1.1 Abdominal message   According  to  the  Tekgündüz  et  al.  (2014), who  were  introduced  the  ILOVU  abdominal message  in  neonates,  the  message  technique  can  be  learned  by  the  patients'  care  giver.  Therefore, despite the researcher was a gastrointestinal RN, and is doing abdominal message professionally in about 10 years, the main purpose in this research was training the patient's key care giver to do the message for the patients every day even after the end of the research. Because constipation and distention are always continuous gastrointestinal complications in elderly.  Thus at the beginning of the research, the researcher did the abdominal message for the patient individually and asked the patient's care giver to observe the procedure. Then the researcher asked the care giver to do the message in the supervision of the researcher. When the researcher confirmed that the patient's care giver can do the message individually, then asked him/her to do the message for the patient. A checklist was used to assess the ability of the care giver to do the message. The steps of ILOVU abdominal message  - At the beginning, the researcher asked the patient to be in a supine position in a relaxed manner.  - The researcher explained the procedure face to face  to the patient and the key caregiver  - Then the procedure of diaphragmatic breathing was thought to the patient. - The  massager's  dominant  hand  was  shaped  like  a  paddle,  and  then  the  circular clockwise massage was performed in line with the bowel movements on abdominal wall with medium pressure.  
 10 - Abdominal  massage  had  an  "I  LOV  U"  technique.  Circular  abdominal  massage movements were performed in the form of letters I, L, U, and O towards the bowel movements of colon and small intestine.  - For massage of the left side, the patient was position in supine, and the massage was performed circularly  by  writing the letter  I on  the left upper quadrant  (LUQ) and continued vertically downward along the Left lower quadrant (LLQ).  - To write a letter L, the massage started from the right lower quadrant (RLQ) of abdomen along the upward segment of colon to the right upper quadrant (RUQ), and then from the transverse segment of massage colon to the left upper quadrant (LUQ).  - To write a letter O exactly around the navel in umbilical region, the massage was along the small intestine.  - To write a letter U, all areas, where we massaged by writing I and L, were re-massaged continually. To write a letter U, massage started from the right lower quadrant (RLQ) along  the upward  segment of  colon to  the right  upper quadrant  (RUQ), and  then continued along the  transverse segment of colon  to the left upper quadrant (LUQ). Then,  the  left upper  quadrant  (LUQ)  was  massaged,  and  we  vertically  continued downward along the descending colon segment to LLQ.  The duration of each massage was 15 minutes twice daily, once 2 hours after breakfast and another 2 hours after lunch for ten days.  The life style education content The life style education content in this study was included: The mean volume of daily fluid intake (30cc/kg) if there were no fluid limitation, Daily amount of fiber intake (18-32gr) by taking a pamphlet about the food with fiber to the patient, education the correct technique for Gavage in addition to the appropriate position during defecation and daily active or passive 
 11 physical activities. The appropriate technique for defecation was divided in to two parts that was thought according to the patient's activity limitations: 1- Sitting in a position that the hip had been bended in 90 degree while the body would be in a state condition.2- Being in a lateral position while the hip and knee should be flexed.  Prior to the intervention, the pre-test (to determine constipation, distension and food tolerance) was  performed in  both groups.  Then, the  abdominal massage  and lifestyle  training were performed in the intervention group. As long as  the elderly were in  the hospital, the researcher  completed the constipation  and distension instrument, daily at the beginning of the morning between 7:00 to 7:30.Then it was performed by phone contact after discharge. The control group received only the routine educations about the lifestyle and diet trainings. After completing the research and the completing the posttest scales, the control group received the  image  file of massage  on  the final day.  The data were  analyzed  by SPSS16  through descriptive tests such as mean, standard deviations and frequencies and also some analytical statistics like repeated measure ANOVA, man Whitney U test, chi square and etc.   Ethical considerations: The approval of the research were obtained from the ethics committee of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences: IRMUMS.NURSE.REC.1397.004. The research were registered in Iran Randomized clinical Trail registration site: IRCT20180721040547N1. Before the sampling each patient or the key care giver completed the informed consent. And the patients and their care givers were free to leave the research in any time they wanted.  Results   12 The mean and standard deviation of the elderly age was 78.1±8.4 years in the intervention group and 76.7±8.3 years in the control group. Independent t-test did not show any significant difference between  groups (P=  0.508).  There were no  significant difference between  two groups in terms of other demographic and disease data (P>0.05)(Table 1). According to the results, most of the patients had no defecation in the first day in both groups (P= 0.19). But from the fourth day most of the patients in intervention group had defecation, which was significantly more than the control group (P=0.004, contingency coefficient (day 4,5)= 0.34, 0.39). The data showed that the defecation of most of the patients in control group was started in seventh day (table2). According to the general rules of thumb given by Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001), if the contingency coefficient in the chi square test is more than 0.29, it will have a middle effect size. In this case, the contingency coefficient was 0.3.  Results of t student test of comparing the mean and standard deviation of  the constipation assessment scores (CAS) before the intervention, did not show any significant difference (P= 0.435) between two groups (Table 3). While the results of the analysis showed a significant improvement (P <0.001, CI(0.30,1.59),  EF=0.44) in the  mean of the constipation assessment scores (CAS) in the intervention group in comparison with the control group after ten days intervention.  Also the results indicated that while all of the elderly in both groups consumed magnesium hydroxide syrup before the study, the consumption of magnesium hydroxide syrup reached 64.7% in the control group and 20.7% in the intervention group after the intervention (table 3). Results indicated that 65.5% of the elderly in the intervention group and 55.9% in the control group had severe constipation, while none of patients had mild constipation. After intervention, Mann-Whitney U test results indicated that the elderly in both groups had significant changes 
 13 in the severity of constipation, so that 55.2% of the intervention group and 17.6% of the control group had mild constipation after the intervention (P<0.001) (table 3).  In accordance with the results of repeated measure ANOVA, the range of distention in ten days intervention was significantly decreased during the days in intervention group, the test showed a significant effect of time (P<0.001, partial eta squared=0.19) and group (P=0.02, partial eta squared=  0.075) in  this  variable.  The  results showed  Partial Eta  Squared=0.19>0.14  that according to the general rules of thumb given by Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001) for eta-squared, this means that the effect size of the frequency of abdominal messages along with appropriate life style in ten days is large (figure 2).   According to the elderly's food intake pathway, 12 (41.4) patients in intervention group and 19 (55.9) patients in control group were taking food through NG tube, while 17 (58.6) patients in intervention and 15 (44.1) patients in control group were taking food orally. Chi square test did not show any difference between two groups about the food intake pathway (P= 0.25) (table1).  Results showed that the rate of food tolerance through gavage were increased two days after intervention in experimental group, while this rate was increased in control group after 8 days (figure 3). Man Whitney U test showed a significant difference between two groups about the numbers of food tolerance in elderly that were intake food through NG tube (P=0.036).   Also the results showed that in the intervention group the elderly had food tolerance after two days orally but in the control group most of the elderly tolerated food after 7 days (figure4). T student test  revealed a  significant  difference between two  groups in  the numbers of  food tolerance through mouth during ten days (P<0.001).  Discussion 
 14 Results of the present study indicated that the abdominal massage by the "I LOV U" technique along with life style education could improve constipation, reduce distension, and increase food tolerance rate through NG tube and mouth in the elderly with stroke. The results of this research showed that the "I LOV U" abdominal massage technique along with life style education could irritate the elderly patients' bowels more effective than the life style education lonely. The results showed that the defecation habit was started in most of the elderly in intervention group in the fourth and fifth days of intervention, while the defecation habit in control group often started in seventh day. According to the general rules of thumb given by Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001), the contingency coefficient in this case were CC*= 0.34 in fourth day and CC*=0.39 in fifth day. This results shows that the abdominal message along with life style education in this study could have a middle effect size on the starting time of defecation habit in elderly with stroke.   Consistent  with the present  study, there  are  studies about  the effectiveness  of  abdominal message on the constipation of elderly with chronic constipation (9, 13, 22), constipation of  ICU patients (21, 27, 28) and the functional constipation(29). All of the studies were showed the effectiveness of abdominal message on constipation. But according to the results of this study, the data showed that abdominal message along with life style education not only can improve the score of constipation, but also can shorten the duration of time of starting the defecation habit in elderly after stroke. For example, In Lamas's study (22), the elderly did not show any significant improvement in their constipation scores until the fourth week, but the improvement was significant after week 8. In the present study, the mean days of constipation recovery were 3-5 days after the intervention. It can be concluded that the use of abdominal massage along with life style training such as having enough liquid, doing appropriate physical activity and performing correct position during the defecation can push forward the starting date of the defecation habit in elderly with stroke.  
 15 Furthermore, the laxative consumption significantly decreased after the intervention. All of elderly consumed magnesium hydroxide syrup before study in intervention and control groups, but the magnesium hydroxide syrup consumption decreased to 80% in the intervention group after the intervention. The finding was inconsistent with findings of Lamas(22) who concluded that abdominal  massage failed to reduce laxative  intake. The inconsistency was  due to the chronic constipation in the elderly in Lamas's study and the association of abdominal massage with lifestyle training, as well as the association of abdominal massage with gastrointestinal tract peristalsis. But the finding of this research are consistent with the results of mokhtare and colleagues  (29)who  studied  the  effectiveness  of  abdominal  message  along  with  PEG (polyethylene glycol) in patients with functional constipation.  In the present study, not only the post-intervention constipation score improved, but also the constipation severity reduced and the severity of constipation increased by mild to moderate in patients in both groups, while most of patients had mild constipation in the intervention group. The results indicated that abdominal massage by an "I LOV U" method with lifestyle training could  significantly  reduce  the  clinical  severity  of  constipation  in  patients.  However,  the severity of constipation decreased in the control group patients who received the lifestyle training, but most patients had moderate constipation levels. Consistent with the present study, results of a study by Hanai et al. (2016) titled "the examination of effect of self-care program on constipation in 30 breast cancer patients during chemotherapy" indicated that abdominal massage improved the constipation(14). In Hanai's study, the percentage of severe constipation decreased by 40%, but the severe constipation decreased by 65% in the present study. Side effects of taking chemotherapy drugs, which reduce intestinal Peristalsis, and also the shallow abdominal massage may be reasons for the reduction of severe constipation improvement in Hanai's study. In the present study, however,  patients were not treated  with chemotherapy 
 16 drugs, and the abdominal massage was structured and in line with gastrointestinal peristalsis. Hanai's study was consistent with the present study in terms of lifestyle training content.  Consistent with the present study, McClurge et al. (2016) conducted a study on the effects of abdominal massage on  constipation in 16 elderly patients (mean age:  72) with Parkinson's disease", that concluded the abdominal massage and lifestyle training improved symptoms of constipation in the elderly, but its data were not statistically significant. The insignificance of the  constipation  improvement  could  be  statistically  due  to  the  experimental  nature  of McClurge's study and the small sample size and long follow-up in his study (13).  In a study by Seyed Rasouli et al. (2016) titled "A comparison of the effects of reflexology and abdominal  massage  on  constipation  in  20  orthopedic  patients  in  Azerbaijan,  abdominal massage improved symptoms of constipation in orthopedic patients(26); and their results were consistent with results of the present study.  In a study by Seyed Rasouli, abdominal massage was simple, regardless of direction of the gastrointestinal peristalsis; however, the constipation recovery trend was studied day-to-day and indicated that the constipation significantly improved from day 3, while the constipation improvement was from day 6-7 in the present study. The difference could be due to the mean age of samples (56 year) in Seyed Rasouli's study, but the patients of the present study were the elderly with stroke. Both aging and stroke are two factors that delay the onset of symptoms of constipation recovery. The findings of the present study indicated that the measurement of abdominal circumference and  mean day  of  recovery, the  abdominal massage  plus lifestyle  training  based on  daily abdominal  measurements  significantly  reduced  distension  (abdominal  bloating)  in  the intervention group compared to  the control group.  The results  also indicated that patients' distension decreased in the intervention group on average during 4-5 days. In line with the 
 17 results of the current study on abdominal circumference, Kahraman and Ozdemir (2015)(28), and Dehghan et al (2018)(21) also showed significant decrease in the patients' abdominal circumference. Consistent with the present study, Tekgündüz et al. (2014) conducted a study on the effect of abdominal massage  by  "I LOVE U" technique  on the  nutritional tolerance of 14  preterm infants" and concluded that abdominal massage improved abdominal distension during a 5-day intervention(16). Consistent with Tekgündüz study, results of the present study indicated the improvement  of  bloating  in  the  elderly.  However, Tekgündüz  indicated  the  bloating improvement  at  the  end  of  study  (day  5)  in  infants,  but  did  not  mention  the  bloating improvement during the study days. In the present study, the process of abdominal distension improvement was quite clear with daily abdominal circumference measurements. Given the infant population of Tekgündüz 's study and their earlier bloating improvement (day 5),  their  follow-up  time  was  shorter  than  the  present  study;  hence,  based  on  results  of Tekgündüz's study and the present research, massage by an "I LOV U" technique could be effective in the elderly, but number of days of intervention was higher than infants.  Results of a study by Fatehipour et  al. (2016)  on the  effect of abdominal massage on  the gastrointestinal function and incidence of aspiration in 35 patients admitted to intensive care units of hospitals in Kerman were consistent with the present study and it indicated that the Swedish abdominal massage reduced  the abdominal  distension(24). A remarkable point  in Fatehpour's study was that the Swedish abdominal massage twice a day for three consecutive days rapidly showed symptoms of abdominal flatulence improvement after the third day, but in the present study, symptoms of abdominal flatulence improvement emerged from the day six. The reason for this difference might be the technical difference of Swedish abdominal massage with abdominal massage of "I LOV U".  
 18 Swedish abdominal massage is professional and requires special training. It was performed by a researcher in Dehghan's study, but in the present study, the massage technique was taught to the patient caregiver who performed massage for the patient during the study. In this regard, the  caregiver  cooperation  and  accuracy  in  massaging  and  adhering  to  proper  nutrition principles to relieve bloating and constipation and a variety of patient caregivers might be the reasons for delayed symptoms of bloating in the present study. In addition, the duration of each Swedish massage was 45 minutes that might further stimulate the intestines. A side goal of the present  study  was  to  reduce  costs  of  treatment  and  length  of  hospitalization  due  to gastrointestinal complications in the elderly with stroke and also to reduce the dependency of the elderly caregivers on health centers to achieve abdominal massage and lifestyle training for caregivers. However, no training was provided for patient caregivers in Dehghan's study; and the researcher performed the abdominal massage (21). Findings of the present study indicated that abdominal massage with lifestyle training based on the measurement of gastric residual volume and nausea and vomiting of the elderly twice daily prior to gavage and morning and evening oral nutrition increased the food tolerance (oral and gavage nutrition) in the elderly patients with stroke in the intervention group; and the findings became significant. In the intervention group, symptoms of improvement in gavage tolerance were seen in the elderly in the intervention group on days 2-3, and in the control group on day 7; and symptoms of improvement in oral food tolerance in the intervention group on days 1-2, and in the control group on day 5.  Results of a study by Tekgündüz et al. (2014) titled "the impact of abdominal massage on the food tolerance of 14 preterm infants in Turkey" indicated that abdominal massage reduced the volume of neonatal gastric residual volume, thereby increasing the neonatal gavage tolerance and increasing their weight gaining(16). The conclusion was consistent with the present study. In  neonates,  there  were  symptoms  of  gavage  tolerance  improvement  on  day  5  of  the 
 19 intervention, but symptoms of gavage tolerance were seen on days 2-3 in the present study. The reason for the difference can be attributed to the combination of abdominal massage with lifestyle training in the present study.  Also  in a study  found that the Swedish abdominal massage increased the gavage tolerance (reduction of gastric residual volume) in patients (21), and it was consistent with the present study.  It is noteworthy that the increased gavage tolerance (reduction in gastric residual volume) was significant after the third day of intervention in Dehghan's study(21), and after the second day of intervention  in the present  study. The association of  abdominal  massage with  lifestyle training was a reason for accelerating the rate of gavage tolerance (reduction in gastric residual volume) in the present study.  The main limitations of the research were at first the differences in caregivers. Sometimes the researcher should took much times for each care giver to learn the message. The other limitation was the different duration of the time of hospitalization in patients in the study. Some patients were hospitalized more than two weeks, then the researcher could supervise the process of abdominal message in each patient in ten days. But some patients were discharged before the end of the research and the researcher must follow the patients by telephone call. Conclusion The present study indicated that the use of massage by an "I LOV U" technique and lifestyle training could improve constipation and distension in addition to reduce their need for taking laxative drugs. However, the abdominal massage is a simple-inexpensive procedure that does not have any complexity, and anyone can be trained and able to do it. In the present study, the use of massage by an "I LOV U" technique in direction of normal bowel movements and bowel stimulation helped ease  gas excretion and reduce constipation, but the method,  along with 
 20 lifestyle training such as consuming fiber-containing foods and movement and activity, could greatly improve gastrointestinal complications. Therefore, it decreased frequency of the elderly with severe constipation and increased frequency of mild to moderate constipation. The research results indicated that abdominal massage and lifestyle training could be used to improve gastrointestinal complications in the elderly with stroke. Acknowledgments This article has been adapted from a master's dissertation in medical-surgical nursing with the ethics code of IRMUMS.NURSE.REC.1397.004 in Nursing and Midwifery School of Mashhad University of  Medical  Sciences,  Mashhad,  Iran.  It  has  been  registered  as  a  clinical  trial  ID  of  IRCT  ID: IRCT20180721040547N1. The authors would like to express  their gratitude to the financial and research department of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, the participating patients and their family member hospitalized in neuroscience ward, and the staff of Qaem, hospitals for their contribution in  this study.  All of  the financial costs have  been supported  by the research deputy of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences. Author statement As the author statement is one of the important option for submitting, I assessed all of the titles of author guideline but I didn't find any file about author statement. All of the authors of this manuscript are agree with the data declared in the manuscript. And all are agree with submitting the manuscript  Conflicts of interests: There is no conflict of interests in this study. Acknowledgments This article has been adapted from a master's dissertation in medical-surgical nursing with the ethics code of IRMUMS.NURSE.REC.1397.004 in Nursing and Midwifery School of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. It has been registered as a clinical trial ID of IRCT ID: IRCT20180721040547N1. The authors would like to express their gratitude to the financial and research department of Mashhad University of Medical 
 21 Sciences, the participating patients and their family member hospitalized in neuroscience ward, and the staff of Qaem, hospitals for their contribution in this study. All of the financial costs have been supported by the research deputy of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences   References 1. Franceschi  C,  Garagnani  P,  Morsiani  C,  Conte  M,  Santoro  A,  Grignolio  A,  et  al.  The Continuum of Aging and Age-Related Diseases: Common Mechanisms but Different Rates. Frontiers in medicine. 2018;5:61-. 2.  Noroozian M. The elderly population in iran: an ever growing concern in the health system. Iranian journal of psychiatry and behavioral sciences. 2012;6(2):1-6. 3.  Lui SK, Nguyen MH. Elderly Stroke Rehabilitation: Overcoming the Complications and Its Associated Challenges. Current gerontology and geriatrics research. 2018;2018:9853837-. 4.  Ghandehari K. Epidemiology of stroke in Iran. Galen Medical Journal. 2016;5(S1):3-9. 5.  Camara-Lemarroy CR, Ibarra-Yruegas BE, Gongora-Rivera F. Gastrointestinal complications after ischemic stroke. Journal of the neurological sciences. 2014;346(1-2):20-5. 6.  Li J, Yuan M, Liu Y, Zhao Y, Wang J, Guo W. Incidence of constipation in stroke patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Medicine. 2017;96(25). 7.  Forootan M, Bagheri N, Darvishi M. Chronic constipation: A review of literature. Medicine. 2018;97(20):e10631-e. 8.  Lim SF, Childs C. A systematic review of the effectiveness of bowel management strategies for constipation in adults with stroke. International Journal of Nursing Studies. 2013;50(7):1004-10. 9.  Birimoglu Okuyan C, Bilgili N. Effect of abdominal massage on constipation and quality of life  in  older  adults:  A  randomized  controlled  trial.  Complementary  Therapies  in  Medicine. 2019;47:102219. 10.  Çevik K, Çetinkaya A, Yiğit Gökbel K, Menekşe B, Saza S, Tıkız C. The Effect of Abdominal Massage on Constipation in the Elderly Residing in Rest Homes. Gastroenterology nursing : the official journal of the Society of Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates. 2018;41(5):396-402. 11.  Sinclair M. The use of abdominal massage to treat chronic constipation. Journal of bodywork and movement therapies. 2011;15(4):436-45. 12.  Tekgündüz KŞ,  Gürol A, Apay  SE, Caner  İ. Effect  of  abdomen massage  for prevention of feeding intolerance in preterm infants. Italian Journal of Pediatrics. 2014;40(1):89. 13.  McClurg D, Hagen S, Jamieson K, Dickinson L, Paul L, Cunnington A. Abdominal massage for the alleviation of symptoms of constipation in people with Parkinson's: a randomised controlled pilot study. Age and ageing. 2016;45(2):299-303. 14.  Hanai A, Ishiguro H, Sozu T, Tsuda M, Arai H, Mitani A, et al. Effects of a self-management program on antiemetic-induced constipation  during chemotherapy  among breast cancer patients: a randomized controlled clinical trial. Breast cancer research and treatment. 2016;155(1):99-107. 15.  Wang X, Yin J. Complementary and alternative therapies for chronic constipation. Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine. 2015;2015. 16.  Tekgündüz KŞ,  Gürol A, Apay  SE, Caner  I. Effect  of  abdomen massage  for prevention  of feeding intolerance in preterm infants. Italian journal of pediatrics [Internet]. 2014 2014; 40:[89 p.]. 17.  Basilisco G, Coletta M. Chronic constipation: a critical review. Digestive and Liver Disease. 2013;45(11):886-93. 18.  Sturtzel  B, Elmadfa I.  Intervention with  Dietary  Fiber to  Treat Constipation and  Reduce Laxative Use in Residents of Nursing Homes. Annals of  Nutrition and Metabolism. 2008;52(suppl 1)(Suppl. 1):54-6. 19.  Ouwehand AC, Lagström H, Suomalainen T, Salminen S. Effect of Probiotics on Constipation, Fecal  Azoreductase  Activity  and  Fecal  Mucin  Content  in  the  Elderly.  Annals  of  Nutrition  and Metabolism. 2002;46(3-4):159-62. 
 22 20.  Johanson  JF.  Review  of  the  treatment  options  for  chronic  constipation.  MedGenMed  : Medscape general medicine. 2007;9(2):25. 21.  Dehghan M, Mehdipoor R, Ahmadinejad M. Does abdominal massage improve gastrointestinal functions  of  intensive  care  patients  with  an  endotracheal  tube?:  a  randomized  clinical  trial. Complementary therapies in clinical practice. 2018;30:122-8. 22.  Lämås K, Lindholm L, Stenlund H, Engström B, Jacobsson C. Effects of abdominal massage in management of constipation—a randomized controlled trial. International journal of nursing studies. 2009;46(6):759-67. 23.  Kosasih CE,  Andriani AD, Lestari AA,  Sekarjati FM, Iqomatulhaq H,  Audini JJ, et al.  Effects  of Abdominal Massage to  Overcome  Gastrointestinal Dysfunction in Patients in Intensive Care Unit: A Literature Review. Padjadjaran Acute Care Nursing Journal. 2019;1(1). 24.  Fatehi  Pourgolab  A-o.  The  effect  of  abdominal  massage  on  gastrointestinal  function  and aspiration incidence among patients hospitalized in intensive care units in Shahid Bahonar Hospital of Kerman  University of  Medical  Sciences  in ۷۱۰۲:  School of  Nursing,  Kerman University  of  Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran; 2017. 25.  Emly  M,  Rochester  P. A  new  look  at  constipation management  in  the  community. British journal of community nursing. 2006;11(8):326-32. 26.  Seyyedrassoli A, Ghahramanian A, Azizi A,  Goljarian S, Gillespie M, Aydinferd S. Comparison of effectiveness of reflexology and abdominal massage on constipation among orthopedic patients: A Single-Blind randomized controlled trial. International Journal of Medical Research & Health Sciences. 2018;5(10):33-40. 27.  Momenfar F,  Abdi A, Salari N, Soroush  A,  Hemmatpour B. Studying  the  effect of abdominal massage  on  the gastric  residual  volume in  patients hospitalized  in  intensive  care  units. Journal  of Intensive Care. 2018;6(1):47. 28.  Kahraman BB, Ozdemir L.  The impact of abdominal massage administered to intubated and enterally  fed  patients  on  the  development  of  ventilator-associated  pneumonia:  a  randomized controlled study. Int J Nurs Stud. 2015;52(2):519-24. 29.  Mokhtare  M,  Karimi  S,  Bahardoust  M,  Sotoudeheian  M,  Ghazi  A,  Babaei-Ghazani A.  How adding the  abdominal massage to  polyethylene  glycol  can improve  symptom  and  quality  of  life  in patients with functional constipation in comparison with each one of the treatment modalities alone: A randomized clinical trial. Complementary Therapies in Medicine. 2020;52:102495.        
