Unlock Medical Terminology for Massage Therapists — Your MBLEx & SOAP Note Secret

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OE55MI8nKY

Hello there. I'm Michelle Bullock, licensed massage therapist in Washington. And as you all know, I like to create content for you guys that's all about passing the massage and bodywork licensing exam, otherwise known as the MBLEx. Eventually, I'd like to start moving into teaching some other things other than the MBLEx, but right now this playlist, which is called MBLEx Prep with Michelle, is just all about that MBLEx. So, I've been trying to crank out as many resources as possible to help you all study in addition to just kind of going over all of that in these videos.

But what I have finished so far is an ebook that's all about medical terminology. I'll scoot over here so you guys can look at the little clip that I'm going to put up that shows you what that's going to look like. And I'll have it set up in the link tree in the description below. And for right now, it's going to be free. I don't know what I'm going to end up doing with it eventually. That goes for all the resources. I don't know how long those things are going to be free, but for right now, they're free. So, look in the link tree, follow the links, it'll take you to my website where you can go ahead and have an instant download of that medical terminology book.

The book is 27 pages long and that includes some worksheets. But basically what I do is I go through and go over how medical terminology works. But first we need to know why it's important. Now, in your Federation of State Massage Therapy Board's exam content outline that you could get from their website, there's a little chart that has the seven categories of the massage and bodywork licensing exam laid out. And then it has some some more specific details about what you need to know under each of those categories. First of all, there's pathology, which is a really big deal. Something that helps you to understand pathology is having that basic understanding of how a medical word including the Latin roots are put together. And then at the very end of guidelines for professional practice, it says healthcare and health business terminology. And that's where it's specifically trying to say you need to understand healthcare terminology.

Essentially, when it comes to success on the massage and bodywork licensing exam, they might be throwing some medical conditions or medical procedures at you that you did not study for that you have no idea what they are. One way that you can have still have success even though you're not totally sure what those things are is by understanding how healthcare words are put together so that you can pick it apart and find the best answer. And we're going to be going over that in this webinar.

Why does the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards think that it's important for you to understand medical terminology? It's first so that you can communicate better with your clients and with other healthcare providers. So that when someone's speaking to you and they're using medical terminology, you feel confident that, oh wow, I understand what that means because I understand the basic building blocks. Sometimes I'll slow down for a second when another healthcare provider is speaking to me or when a client is speaking to me. It's a condition that I've not specifically had experience with. And I'm like—I slow down for a second—I'm like, "Okay, wait a minute. So, pick this apart." Okay. And I'm like, "At least I understand the body system that they're talking about." So, they're like, "Okay, you're not stupid." And yeah, it helps you identify contraindications and red flags. Say if it's like an itis or someone's had some kind of ectomy or if it's some kind of cardiovascular issue—it's got some kind of like chemo or cardio or something like that in the name of the condition—you can go, okay, let's slow down for a second and find out more about that condition so that we know whether or not this is a condition that we need to make modifications for or we should treat at all.

Okay. So, let's break down the words. So, first of all, we need to know that there's a subject and then there's the prefix and then there's a suffix. So, prefix comes first. That's the first section. And then the subject is usually typically in the middle. Sometimes it's at the beginning. And then the suffix is the last connecting term at the very end. The subject roots would be myo meaning muscle, osteo meaning bones, derma/dermo or dermato would be the skin, and neuro would be the nerves. And then prefixes, that's a little term that comes at the beginning. Pre means before. Oh, we're already using terminology. Yeah. So we got like hyper which means having a lot of or going really fast. There's hypo which is a deficiency or going slow. And then there's pre which is before. There's post which is after. There's sub which is under. And there's peri which is around. These are all prefixes that help you to be able to understand a little bit more about what's going on with the subject. And then there's a suffix which are terms like algia which is pain, pathy which is a condition or something that's wrong, osis is another term for a condition something that's chronic, and then itis being an inflammation.

So let's give a couple of examples of those terms put together. Arthritis, which is—we've just got the subject and we've got the suffix. Subject being arth meaning joint, itis meaning inflammation. We've got neuropathy. That's another one where it's just subject and suffix. Neuro meaning nerve and pathy is disorder.

Okay. So, in that guide that I created, I have a little bit of a bigger list and then you can work on continuing to build up your medical terminology skills. Every time you find a new term that isn't on the list that I gave you or you hadn't heard of before, you just go ahead and write that down and it will help to sink in. And then once you have that toolbox of these terms, when you go to take your MBLEx, when you get thrown a question with a medical term that you're not sure about, it will help you to be able to eliminate the answers that it isn't so that you can find the best answer that you think that it could possibly be.

So let's start with some questions, some examples of how this would be used. "While reviewing a treatment note, a massage therapist sees that the client was treated for myalgia in the thoracic region." So thoracic can be used in medical terminology with thoracic being the subject. As we know, thoracic as far as body regions go, we've got cervical, thoracic—which is the upper back—and lumbar. So, we know that it's somewhere in the upper back. Myo would be referring to muscle. Okay. "Myalgia in the thoracic region, which best describes what this note means?"

A. The client had a bone fracture in the upper back. (Bone fracture would be osteo something, right? No, that wouldn't work.)
B. The client experienced nerve damage in the spinal cord. (Okay, so the thoracic region is pointed out, but it isn't saying specifically any of the terminology referring to spinal cord. Typically, spinal would be like spina or neuro. So that's not used in this medical terminology.)
It's specifically referring to muscle and pain. Algia being pain. So that probably would not be the right one.
C. The client had inflammation of the skin on the back. (Skin would be derma. Inflammation would be itis. So that's not used in the medical terminology.)
And so D, the client reported muscle pain in the midback, which totally makes sense with the description that we had.

Let's do another one. So like, you can figure that out. You can isolate everything. You can isolate all the answers that it couldn't be and the ones that it could possibly be by the process of elimination. If you understand this terminology method. "A massage therapist is charting a client's report of a tingling sensation on the outside of the left thigh." And when you're in the test, you can go ahead and touch that spot on your body. You could go to—that's my right—you could go to the left side and you say outside of the left thigh. Okay. What is that? When we're considering medical terminology, that would be lateral, right? That's using the directional terms that we used in kinesiology. Lateral left thigh. Is there another word for that? Femoral area. There's that femoral lateral anterior. And then hip—what's the word that we use for hip? Acetabular area. So tingling sensation on the outside of the left thigh. I would say that that would be more like on the outside—would that be the skin? Something like that. I would look for that.

"Which is the most appropriate way to describe this symptom using medical terminology?" Let's look through our choices.
A. Client presents with paresthesia localized to the left medial femoral cutaneous nerve pathway. (I like that. Cutaneous—cutane would be referring to the skin. Nerve—I would look for neuro. But medial is the kicker right here. Medial saying that's the inside of the thigh. We're looking at the outside.)
B. Client reports radicular pain extending from the lumbar spine into the ipsilateral posterior thigh. (That's a little too complicated. We're not talking about... okay, so it's on the same side, coming from... radicular is usually referring to nerve pain. Spinal nerve. So, it's not pain though; it's like a tingling sensation that they said they feel.)
C. Client presents with cutaneous discomfort on the left anterolateral thigh. (I like that one. Cutaneous discomfort. That's the tingling on the outside.)
D. Client notes dermatomal numbness correlating with the S1 distribution in the contralateral limb. (It doesn't say specifically which limb it is and numbness, which isn't what they were experiencing. They felt tingling.)

So the closest one out of all of these—this is how it's going to be on the MBLEx. Some of these answers that you get won't make a lot of sense to you. But what I'm trying to help you do is isolate the best possible answer. So out of all of these, I think C would be the best possible answer because we've got left anterolateral. That's the outside of the left thigh. Cutaneous discomfort is a tingling sensation. Okay. S1 dermatome for D—dermatomal numbness affects the posterior leg and foot, not the anterolateral thigh. And contralateral means the wrong side. So there's a bunch of stuff wrong with D. So that doesn't work. Okay. Radicular pain—that's for B—implies nerve root involvement with radiating pain, not localized cutaneous tingling. Wow, that's a lot of specifics, but basically you could still get the right answer. That's what the MBLEx is all about. It's just like, do you get the right answer? How do you get it? It doesn't matter so much. Do you get the right answer, though?

So let's do another question. "A client intake form lists a history of osteopenia. The massage therapist is unsure of the full condition but recognizes the root and suffix. Based on the term alone, what is the most accurate interpretation?"
Osteopenia. Osteo means bone. Like right off the top of my head, osteo means bone. So, which of these in the list refers to bone? So, we can eliminate the rest.
A. Degeneration of a joint's articular cartilage. (Joint's articular cartilage does not refer to bone, but we're going to go ahead and scoot that aside and put a pin in it.)
B. Inflammation of the connective tissue surrounding muscle. (We're going to throw that aside because that doesn't have to do with bone.)
C. Decreased bone density. (We're going to put a pin in that one.)
D. Excessive calcium buildup in soft tissue. (That doesn't make sense to me. That would be some kind of myo something condition, right?)
So C would be the best answer because it's referring specifically to bones. Do you understand your medical terminology? That's what they want. That's what the massage and bodywork licensing exam wants to know.

So let's go over that guide that I created for you. Come here. So let's see. The first chapter is just a little introduction. And then we have chapter 2, how medical words are built. So there I'm talking through the concepts of prefix, subject and suffix and some terms that you might know. Then we have chapter three which is going through understanding the key subject roots of the musculoskeletal system and their meanings and different examples of how those are used like myalgia, sarcopenia, osteoporosis, arthritis, chondromalacia, tendinopathy, ligamentous, fasciitis, kyphosis. These are all terms that might get thrown at you. Bursitis, vertebral, craniotomy.

So these are all terms that might get thrown at us. And then there's a little overview of musculoskeletal terms and how they might be used, how they're relevant to bodyworkers, how they might be used in a clinical setting in for example your SOAP notes.

And then there's that. So the next chapter is all about the nervous system, understanding the body's communication pathways. So here we have some root words for the nervous system. Then we have some common pathologies that you might come up against in your massage practice and how to use real world examples of medical terminology regarding nerves/the nervous system in your charting.

Next we have circulatory and lymphatic systems going through all the root subject terms. Then we have integumentary system. There's a big list of that. How it all can be used in your charting and then a brief overview of the rest of the systems and terms that you'll see there. And then common prefixes and suffixes in chapter 8. And then we've got some practical application exercises that you can use. So we have, let's see, one, two, three different worksheets that you can work through at the end of the ebook to give you some practice with medical terminology to help lock that in.

So like I said, right now that ebook is totally free. The link is in the description below. Just scroll past some of the other freebies and paid products that I have. That's including the 30-day MBLEx course that takes you through—it's an audio course that takes you through every day for 30 days what you need to study, what you need to spend more time on in order to pass the MBLEx. And then I also have the 10 test bundle of practice tests. So that's over 1,000 questions that's there. So, right under that, you're going to find the medical terminology for bodyworkers ebook.

And with that, I'm going to close out for today. And it's been so good to spend some time with you. Get your freebies, get your stuff. Good luck studying for the MBLEx. Stay calm, stay clear, stay focused, and I will see you in the next video. Todadoo.