File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	18	are no conflicts of interest.  FUNDING No sources of funding 	were 	used in this study.  REFERENCES 1. Jason LA, Sunnquist M, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	18	are no conflicts of interest.  FUNDING No sources of funding 	were 	used in this study.  REFERENCES 1. Domenico G, Wood E. 
Editorial.txt	18	are no conflicts of interest.  FUNDING No sources of funding 	were 	used in this study.  REFERENCES 1. Altun M. The power 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	18	are no conflicts of interest.  FUNDING No sources of funding 	were 	used in this study.  AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS Aarti Welling, Vijay 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	18	are no conflicts of interest.  FUNDING No sources of funding 	were 	used in this study.  AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS NIA and GFM 
Editorial.txt	14	the people we serve.  GENERATIVE AI ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Generative AI tools 	were 	used in the drafting of this editorial to support 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	11	and polyethylene glycol (PEG)+massage groups; however, between-group differences 	were 	not  statistically  significant  (p=0.18).  In  contrast,  Bristol  Stool  Scale  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	11	improved symptoms of constipation in the elderly, but its data 	were 	not statistically significant. The insignificance of the  constipation  improvement  
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	9	activity tolerance and greater subjective well-being. Importantly, these shifts 	were 	not attributed to physical manipulation alone, but rather to 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	9	assigned participants to groups, and delivered the program; thus, they 	were 	not blinded to group allocation. However, research assistants and 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	9	face or via the telephone. Specific demographics such as income 	were 	not collected. Eight of the MT population were female, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	9	APS. It was important that professionalism was upheld. “[if] they 	were 	not so expensive, but there was the risk of 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	9	in Hanai's study. In the present study, however,  patients 	were 	not treated  with chemotherapy   16 drugs, and the abdominal massage 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	9	control group. To do the randomization, the randomization.com website 	were 	used (figure1). At first  100 randomized digits  from 1-100 achieved from 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	10	Sessions were scheduled weekly over a 10-week period. Outcome measures 	were 	collected at baseline (prior to the first session) and 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	10	Outcome Measures, Instruments, and Data Collection Schedule The primary outcomes 	were 	collected at baseline (pretest) and after the 8-week intervention 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	9	that the study employed a cross-sectional design, meaning data 	were 	collected at a single point in time. This limits 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	9	piriformis (left: 23.46%, right: 20%) and gastrosoleus (left: 1.02%, right: 1.11%). Additionally, posterior MTrPs 	were 	more frequently observed in the following areas: the occipital 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	9	muscles, such as the piriformis and gastrosoleus. Additionally, posterior MTrPs 	were 	more frequently observed in the occipital ridge, splenius capitis 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	7	researcher and   2 then  continued  by  the  key  care  giver.  Data  	were  	collected  by  the  demographic  form, constipation assessment score (CAS), 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	7	recorded prior to the first session, and follow-up data 	were 	collected immediately after the 10th session.  Therapeutic Intervention The 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	7	trapezius (left: 96.93%, right: 98.88%), thoracolumbar fascia (89.89%), and hamstrings (left: 97.95%, right: 95.55%). TrPs 	were 	more in the occipital ridge (left: 84.69%, right: 86.66%), splenius capitis 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	7	an increase in the use of massage,” MT 8. Many clients 	were 	more likely to choose an MT that offered APSs—“
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	7	likely to choose an MT that offered APSs—“if there 	were 	more payment options, [I would] definitely [book in with 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	8	mean scores of 0.43±0.19 before, 0.57±0.21 during, and 0.76±0.21 after the intervention. Improvements 	were 	also observed in fecal quantity (1.45±0.49; 1.68±0.18; 1.87±0.39) and fecal consistency (2.40±1.02; 2.75±0.39; 2.93±0.57), while 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	8	control group  remained  in constipation-related categories (p<0.05). Significant  improvements 	were 	also observed in total constipation severity and its subdomains, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	7	were no object, would you have another massage?  8. If money 	were 	no object, what types of things would you go 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	7	the last massage you had meet your expectations?  7. If money 	were 	no object, would you have another massage?  8. If money 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	7	a significant within-group change (p = 0.028). While significant time effects 	were 	observed for all outcomes, within-group improvements were noted 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	7	group demonstrated significant within-group changes. Similarly, significant time effects 	were 	observed for the PCS and MCS (p < 0.001 for both), 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	metabolic disorders, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, dizziness, or visual disturbances.(15) Participants 	were 	also excluded if they had any medical or surgical 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	6	still need to be paid for my services,” MT 9. Installments 	were 	also seen to be simple to set up: “Instalments, 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	6	the conclusion of the initial 10-session intervention period, outcome assessments 	were 	completed, and this case report was prepared. The client 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	ten days. The checklist were completed daily. The CAS scale 	were 	completed before the intervention and ten days after.  Have  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	group. Then the demographic and disease form, and the CAS 	were 	completed by the help of the patient's key 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	started in the experimental group in ten days. The checklist 	were 	completed daily. The CAS scale were completed before the 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	6	embodied experience would guide the pace. Post-session check-ins 	were 	conducted after each appointment to assess physical and emotional 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	6	the self-massage techniques twice daily for 15 min. All maneuvers 	were 	conducted for 5 s and then rested for 3 s, three 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	Prior to the commencement of these camps, extensive awareness campaigns 	were 	conducted to the general public through the distribution of 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	6	was set at a p-value of <0.05, and all analyses 	were 	conducted using IBM SPSS Statistics for Macintosh, Version 29.0 (IBM 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	mean volume of daily fluid intake (30cc/kg) if there 	were 	no fluid limitation, Daily amount of fiber intake (18-32gr) 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	did not show any significant difference between  groups (P=  0.508).  There 	were 	no  significant difference between  two groups in terms of 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	6	no significant change. For perceived immune status, significant time effects 	were 	observed across both groups (p < 0.001), with the self-massage 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	6	showed no significant change. For perceived stress, significant time effects 	were 	observed (p = 0.006), indicating a general improvement across participants; however, 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	7	considered to be in the intervention group, if the number 1 	were 	in the control list the patient would be in 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	7	performed in the intervention group. As long as  the elderly 	were 	in  the hospital, the researcher  completed the constipation  and 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	7	as 1. The researcher saw the random digits, if the number 1 	were 	in the intervention list the patient would considered to 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	7	were mapped, covering 13 health conditions. Across these reviews, no conclusions 	were 	rated as high certainty of evidence. There were 7 conclusions 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	7	that were rated as moderate-certainty evidence; all remaining conclusions 	were 	rated as low- or very low–certainty evidence. All 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	7	rated as high certainty of evidence. There were 7 conclusions that 	were 	rated as moderate-certainty evidence; all remaining conclusions were 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	7	Methods A total of 38 healthy young adults (58% women, aged 18–26 years) 	were 	randomly assigned to a self-massage group (n = 18) or 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	7	and Participants Flowchart At the commencement of the study, participants 	were 	randomly assigned to either the self-massage or control 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	patients had the inclusion criteria. 34 were allocated in intervention and 34 	were 	allocated in control group. To do the randomization, the 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	the acute neurologic ward. But 68 patients had the inclusion criteria. 34 	were 	allocated in intervention and 34 were allocated in control group. 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	medical sciences.     2.4 Procedure  After completing  the informed consent,  the elderly 	were  	allocated  to  the experimental or control group. Then the 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	5	systematic reviews of massage therapy for painful adult health conditions 	were 	found; of these, 41 reviews used a formal method to 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	The demographic analysis indicates that 31.38% of males and 68.61% of females 	were 	found positive for CGH; in addition, the demographic details 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	5	of 51.9% among older adults (Birimoğlu Okuyan & Bilgili, 2019). Similarly, 24% of participants 	were 	found to have chronic constipation and 39.6% subchronic constipation (Werth 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	as often as needed. Perceived benefits to using an APS 	were 	increased accessibility and usage of massage therapy, resulting in 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	Results showed that the rate of food tolerance through gavage 	were 	increased two days after intervention in experimental group, while 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	positive concept,” featured for both MTs and clients. The benefits 	were 	increased use of massage therapy services, affordability, and availability.  
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	5	you?” or “Do you feel okay to continue?” and adjustments 	were 	made immediately if any sign of distress or discomfort 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	money to cover costs and recognize their value. These quotes 	were 	made in relation to a PWYW scheme: “…but are 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	about massage therapy affordability.  Despite these limitations, some interesting insights 	were 	made into the perceptions of MTs and clients regarding 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	patients with stroke at Qaem hospital of Mashhad, Iran. 68 patients 	were 	randomly allocated into control (n= 34) and intervention (n=34) groups 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	from participants within their own geographical area.  Participants Two populations 	were 	recruited: MTs who were currently practicing and for whom 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	5	size of 17 participants per group. Anticipating a 15% dropout rate, 20 participants 	were 	recruited per group. They were then randomly assigned to 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	5	presence of chronic diseases (e.g., autoimmune disorders, cancer). Participants 	were 	recruited through brochures posted on social media and via 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	the Clinical Trial Registry of India (CTRI/2024/11/076178).  Participant Selection Participants 	were 	screened according to predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Individuals 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	the screening process. As a result, a total of 1,283 individuals 	were 	screened, and 188 were diagnosed with CGH who met the 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	subjects with CGH.  Materials and method A total of 1,283 participants 	were 	screened using the Cervicogenic Headache International Study Group criteria, 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	completing all of the 68 patients in each group. The elderly 	were 	selected according to the inclusion criteria:  age: (65 < age < 90) , having 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	5	for feasibility and adherence. Targeted points, based on acupressure theory, 	were 	selected for their potential benefits in immune support and 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	5	session. As standardized tools, the FSS (7-item version) and PSS-10 	were 	selected to provide insight into client-perceived changes during 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	instruction on palpation techniques for identifying specific muscles where TrPs 	were 	to be assessed, guided by a book of myofascial 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	might be a demand for alternative payment schemes?  16. If you 	were 	to consider an alternative payment scheme, which one would 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	reach for many. Therefore, the aims of this research project 	were 	to:  explore perceptions and attitudes of massage therapists (MTs) 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	had  an  "I  LOV  U"  technique.  Circular  abdominal  massage movements 	were 	performed in the form of letters I, L, U, 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	6	in  both groups.  Then, the  abdominal massage  and lifestyle  training 	were 	performed in the intervention group. As long as  the 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	6	explanation of alternative payment schemes in the pre-interview material. 	Were 	you aware of any of these alternative payment schemes?  14. 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	6	read about alternative payment schemes in the pre-interview guide. 	Were 	you aware of any of these schemes?  13. Have you 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	the setting up and maintenance of a new system. MTs 	were 	aware of the time and effort this would take, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	massage more regularly. APSs are another potential way. Most MTs 	were 	aware of these schemes existing in other industries and 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	improved symptoms of constipation in orthopedic patients(26); and their results 	were 	consistent with results of the present study.  In a 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	patients admitted to intensive care units of hospitals in Kerman 	were 	consistent with the present study and it indicated that 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	5	cognitive interpretation, story retelling, or emotional debrief was included.  Sessions 	were 	delivered in a calm, private setting with attention to 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	5	throughout, and verbal interaction during this phase was minimal. Sessions 	were 	delivered in silence or with minimal cueing such as “
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	tube, while 17 (58.6) patients in intervention and 15 (44.1) patients in control group 	were 	taking food orally. Chi square test did not show 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	pathway, 12 (41.4) patients in intervention group and 19 (55.9) patients in control group 	were 	taking food through NG tube, while 17 (58.6) patients in intervention 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	image  file of massage  on  the final day.  The data 	were  	analyzed  by SPSS16  through descriptive tests such as mean, 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	function, perceived health, stress levels, and quality of life, which 	were 	analyzed using mixed-effects repeated measures analysis of covariance (
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	4	were searched from inception through February 2014. Eligible randomized controlled trials 	were 	assessed for methodological quality using SIGN 50 Checklist. Meta-analysis 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	perceived general health (−0.65) and perceived immune functioning (−0.51).(21)  Stress Stress levels 	were 	assessed using the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), which evaluates 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	just a luxury … it actually helps your function,” MT 17.  MTs 	were 	cognizant of their clients’ financial situation, noting that the 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	professional and did all the right things,” Client 4. Additionally, clients 	were 	cognizant that people may take advantage of a therapist 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	the 50 digits considered for intervention and 50 for control group (100 digits 	were 	considered because of the attritions). The random digits kept 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	catch higher effect size. Then by considering the attrition 34 samples 	were 	considered for each group.    6 In the research duration time 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	were female, three were male. In the client population, four 	were 	female and three were male. All participants were living 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	as income were not collected. Eight of the MT population 	were 	female, three were male. In the client population, four 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	4	recommendations.  Results Sixty high quality and seven low quality studies 	were 	included in the review. Results demonstrate massage therapy effectively 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	CGH based on the Cervicogenic Headache International Study Group criteria, 	were 	included.(3,14) Key inclusion criteria included unilateral head pain without 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	adults,  Baran  and Ateş reported that participants in both groups 	were 	initially classified as type 1 or 2 on the Bristol Stool 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	conducted over an 8-week period. Participants in the treatment group 	were 	initially trained in the self-massage techniques by the 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	a qualitative study using a semi-structured interview approach. Participants 	were 	interviewed either in person or over the phone.  Results 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	were prepared for each population (Appendixes I and II). Participants 	were 	interviewed face to face or via the telephone. Specific 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	male. In the client population, four were female and three 	were 	male. All participants were living in either Auckland, Dunedin, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	not collected. Eight of the MT population were female, three 	were 	male. In the client population, four were female and 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	evidence of their conclusions. Overall, 17 systematic reviews regarding 13 health conditions 	were 	mapped, and most reviews concluded that the certainty of 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	certainty or quality of evidence of their conclusions and 17 reviews 	were 	mapped, covering 13 health conditions. Across these reviews, no conclusions 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	time effects were observed for all outcomes, within-group improvements 	were 	noted only for perceived immune status (p = 0.032) and perceived 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	no significant change. For perceived general health, significant time effects 	were 	noted (p < 0.001), with the self-massage group showing a 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	pain. Our systematic review found that despite this literature, there 	were 	only a few conditions for which authors of systematic 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	4	of practitioner was mentioned in almost all studies, practitioner qualifications 	were 	only mentioned by 14.9%. Although practitioners’ qualifications are likely associated 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	evidence that massage therapy was superior to other active therapies 	were 	rare.  Discussion There is a large literature of original 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	evidence. Although adverse events associated with massage therapy for pain 	were 	rare, the evidence was limited. For reviews that had 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	living in either Auckland, Dunedin, or Invercargill.  Analysis All data 	were 	recorded and initially transcribed using the Otter.ai application. 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	4	over the course of the 10-session intervention period. Baseline measures 	were 	recorded prior to the first session, and follow-up 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	In the intervention group, symptoms of improvement in gavage tolerance 	were 	seen in the elderly in the intervention group on 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	on  day  5  of  the   19 intervention, but symptoms of gavage tolerance 	were 	seen on days 2-3 in the present study. The reason 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	massage therapy (eg, for pelvic floor pain) were ineligible, as 	were 	self-administered massage therapy techniques, such as foam rolling. 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	4	also contributed to the positive response. Additionally, all outcome measures 	were 	self-reported and not confirmed by medical follow-up.  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	Rasouli's study, but the patients of the present study 	were 	the elderly with stroke. Both aging and stroke are 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	was to explore MTs’ perceptions of APSs. PIF and installments 	were 	the most recognized. Some mentioned a PWYW scheme as 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	They attended two training sessions to ensure proper technique. They 	were 	then instructed to practice self-massage twice daily, in 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	Anticipating a 15% dropout rate, 20 participants were recruited per group. They 	were 	then randomly assigned to the self-massage group (20 participants) 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	4	limited. For reviews that had conclusions about adverse events, authors 	were 	uncertain if there was a difference between groups or 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	No MTs selected PWYW as a preferred scheme, as they 	were 	uncertain they would have enough income. “It’s just 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	therapist is gone, the money is gone”. However, some MTs 	were 	willing for clients to see records: “I would be 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	the topic prior to being interviewed. Additionally, accessing clients who 	were 	willing to discuss their financial situation face to face 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	population by both MTs and clients. One client thought APSs 	were: “	a really good idea for people who have money [
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	and perceived stress, as measured by standardized scales. These improvements 	were 	accompanied by increased physical activity tolerance and greater subjective 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	high or acceptable quality. While most aspects of internal validity 	were 	adequately addressed, many studies failed either to successfully carry 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	challenges when thinking of providing or utilizing an APS. Considerations 	were 	administration, transparency, and possible impacts on the therapeutic relationship.  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	each group.    6 In the research duration time about 100 stroke elderly 	were 	admitted to the acute neurologic ward. But 68 patients had 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	highlighting the benefits of early detection and diagnosis. These efforts 	were 	aimed at encouraging greater participation in the screening process. 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	across the MT group and the client group. The themes 	were 	as follows: financial contexts, APS as a positive concept; 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	After being trained and provided with the illustrated guide, participants 	were 	asked to conduct the self-massage techniques twice daily 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	in the present study.  The main limitations of the research 	were 	at first the differences in caregivers. Sometimes the researcher 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	all subjects met the established inclusion criteria. Additionally, both examiners 	were 	blinded to which side of the body was affected 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	self-administered massage therapy techniques, such as foam rolling. Reviews 	were 	categorized as those with at least 1 conclusion rated as 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001), the contingency coefficient in this case 	were 	CC*= 0.34 in fourth day and CC*=0.39 in fifth day. 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	results from 19 participants (12 MTs, 7 clients) showed four main themes that 	were 	common across the MT group and the client group. 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	being as good …I’d want to know that they 	were 	completely professional and did all the right things,” Client 4. 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	no conclusions were rated as high certainty of evidence. There 	were 7 	conclusions that were rated as moderate-certainty evidence; all 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	second patient 2, third 3 and so on. This method of sampling 	were 	continued until completing all of the 68 patients in each 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	each session, the client’s comfort and sense of safety 	were 	continuously monitored using both verbal and non-verbal cues. 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	own geographical area.  Participants Two populations were recruited: MTs who 	were 	currently practicing and for whom massage therapy was their 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	In the present study, the mean days of constipation recovery 	were 3-5 	days after the intervention. It can be concluded that 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	MCS (p < 0.001 for both), but no significant within-group changes 	were 	detected in either the self-massage or control group. 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	As a result, a total of 1,283 individuals were screened, and 188 	were 	diagnosed with CGH who met the study’s inclusion 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	found that the duration of  the constipation improvement in  patients 	were 	different. Some of  the patients' constipations  improved after three 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	message in each patient in ten days. But some patients 	were 	discharged before the end of the research and the 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	Implementation steps in experimental group   9 The intervention in experimental group 	were 	divided in to two parts. Abdominal message and life 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	t pay off, I wouldn’t think,” MT 18. These sentiments 	were 	echoed by clients: “Pay what you wish, probably people 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	Invercargill, Dunedin and Auckland, Aotearoa New Zealand.  Participants The participants 	were 12 	employed MTs, and 7 massage therapy clients for whom cost 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	TrPs across the upper back, lower back, and lower limbs 	were 	examined by examiner 1. Muscle tightness in the trapezius, thoracolumbar 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	In this case, we reviewed and included only publications that 	were 	explicitly labeled acupressure and did not review publications about 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	and the presence of TrPs in the posterior kinetic chain 	were 	expressed as percentages. A comparison of the TrP and 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	dozens of systematic reviews about adult health conditions since 2018, there 	were 	few conclusions that had greater than low certainty of 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	the informed consent. And the patients and their care givers 	were 	free to leave the research in any time they 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	and bartering for services was not uncommon. Additionally, gift vouchers 	were 	frequently used, and it was articulated more than once 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	likely to book in for massage with them?  16. If you 	were 	going to book with a massage therapist who offered 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	that again unless I pay it forward,” Client 3. Some clients 	were 	happy to receive free or discounted massages: “Yeah, that’
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	for massage therapy.  Methodology Overall, the majority of these studies 	were 	high or acceptable quality. While most aspects of internal 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	tolerance evaluation checklist. Results: The results indicated that both groups 	were 	homogeneous in demographic variables (P>  0.05).  The  repeated  ANOVA  showed  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	time of hospitalization in patients in the study. Some patients 	were 	hospitalized more than two weeks, then the researcher could 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	after the 8-week intervention period (posttest). The primary outcome measures 	were 	immune status, perceived immune function, perceived health, stress levels, 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	needling, and internal massage therapy (eg, for pelvic floor pain) 	were 	ineligible, as were self-administered massage therapy techniques, such 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	groups about the numbers of food tolerance in elderly that 	were 	intake food through NG tube (P=0.036).   Also the results 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	training. 2.4.1.1 Abdominal message   According  to  the  Tekgündüz  et  al.  (2014), who  	were  	introduced  the  ILOVU  abdominal message  in  neonates,  the  message  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	Glasgow coma scale above 7; Having a key caregiver. Exclusion criteria 	were 	involved: unwillingness to participate in the study; the patient 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	context, findings may be culturally location specific. Client demographic data 	were 	limited. It would be worthwhile to understand these demographics 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	population, four were female and three were male. All participants 	were 	living in either Auckland, Dunedin, or Invercargill.  Analysis All 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	manipulation alone. Another study [75] demonstrated that costs of outpatient services 	were 	lower in the massage group than Traditional Chinese Medical 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	once  daily  for  30  days  in  older  adults,  and  bowel  outcomes  	were  	monitored  using  a defecation diary. The number of defecations 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	clear descriptions and justification for the use of such comparators 	were 	noticeably absent in many trials. Research needs to focus 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	square and etc.   Ethical considerations: The approval of the research 	were 	obtained from the ethics committee of Mashhad University of 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	accessible for people financially, that would be good,” MT 14.  APSs 	were, 	overall, seen as a positive tool for making massage 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	were required to be over 18 years old. Separate interview questions 	were 	prepared for each population (Appendixes I and II). Participants 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	all areas, where we massaged by writing I and L, 	were 	re-massaged continually. To write a letter U, massage 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	Mashhad University of Medical Sciences: IRMUMS.NURSE.REC.1397.004. The research 	were 	registered in Iran Randomized clinical Trail registration site: IRCT20180721040547
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	she began expressing optimism about her future.  No adverse effects 	were 	reported during or after the intervention.  DISCUSSION This case 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	cost was a barrier to seeking further massages. All participants 	were 	required to be over 18 years old. Separate interview questions 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	another  study  found  that  77.3%  of  older  adults with chronic constipation 	were 	residing in nursing homes, highlighting the institutional burden of 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	personal system by having individual conversations with clients. Many clients 	were 	reticent about receiving money from other people for their 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	lasting approximately 60 min, delivered in a private clinical setting. Sessions 	were 	scheduled weekly over a 10-week period. Outcome measures were 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	of life outcomes across all pain populations.  Methods Key databases 	were 	searched from inception through February 2014. Eligible randomized controlled trials 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	ICU patients (21, 27, 28) and the functional constipation(29). All of the studies 	were 	showed the effectiveness of abdominal message on constipation. But 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	food tolerance frequencies through  Gavage  (P=0.20),  and  also  orally  (P<0.001)  	were  	significantly  improved  in  the intervention group.  Conclusion: According to 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	and it was articulated more than once that gift vouchers 	were 	similar to paying it forward.  Kohrt et al.(15) claim 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	group. These results suggest that improvements in immune-related outcomes 	were 	specific to the intervention. In contrast, other outcomes, such 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	of the patient's key care giver. Then the intervention 	were 	started in the experimental group in ten days. The 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	conclusion was consistent with the present study. In  neonates,  there  	were  	symptoms  of  gavage  tolerance  improvement  on  day  5  of  the   19 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	Systematic Reviews, and Web of Science from 2018 to 2023. Included studies 	were 	systematic reviews of massage therapy for pain in adult 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	very low–certainty evidence. All conclusions rated as moderate certainty 	were 	that massage therapy had a beneficial associations with pain.  
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	including fatigue, stress, physical discomfort, and overall well-being. Changes 	were 	tracked using standardized self-report measures and subjective feedback.  
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	and initially transcribed using the Otter.ai application. The results 	were 	transcribed verbatim and analyzed using inductive data analysis.(11) Significant 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	free massage at regular intervals. Students, pensioners, and regular clients 	were 	usually the recipients of a discount. Several therapists also 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	While components of the massage interventions, for the most part, 	were 	well-described, the control groups lacked such data. Replication 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	measurements between the treatment and control groups. Out of 38 participants, 22 (58%) 	were 	women. There was no significant difference in gender distribution 
