File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	38	checklist.   7 2.3.1 Demographic and disease information form. This form was structured 	by 	the researchers according to the literature. That has two 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	38	treatment group were initially trained in the self-massage techniques 	by 	the researchers and provided an illustrated guide containing detailed 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	38	Food intake and defecation daily checklist The checklist was designed 	by 	the researchers. It was concluded three parts. First the 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	38	reported their session completion via weekly phone check-ins conducted 	by 	the researchers. Safety was evaluated by monitoring any adverse 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	38	industries and likened their own current practices to APSs described 	by 	the researchers: “What I have noticed … are hairdressers or 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	36	The content and face validity of the checklist, was confirmed 	by 	the help of 10 faculty members (gastrointestinal nurses and specialists) 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	36	the demographic and disease form, and the CAS were completed 	by 	the help of the patient's key care giver. 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	36	this study.  All of  the financial costs have  been supported  	by 	the research deputy of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences. 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	36	this study. All of the financial costs have been supported 	by 	the research deputy of Mashhad University of Medical Sciences   
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	35	daily for ten days that was performed at first session 	by 	the researcher and   2 then  continued  by  the  key  care  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	35	the report of daily  defecation  and  the  abdominal  physical  exam  	by  	the  researcher.  Second  part  was concluded the reports of 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	34	cost.(4,5) In Aotearoa New Zealand, massage therapy is not covered 	by 	the Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC)—the crown entity that 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	34	the effects of self-massage. While the protocol was guided 	by 	the acupressure theory and piloted for feasibility, it lacked 
Editorial.txt	34	and refine tone. All content was reviewed, edited, and finalized 	by 	the author to ensure accuracy and alignment with the 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	34	was associated with meaningful shifts in well-being, as reported 	by 	the client and reflected in standardized outcome measures over 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	then  continued  by  the  key  care  giver.  Data  were  collected  	by  	the  demographic  form, constipation assessment score (CAS), distension measurement 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	34	likely financially inaccessible to many and is generally not subsidized 	by 	the government; however, some private insurance companies in New 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	34	would be their traps and arms, which could be caused 	by 	the guarding or shooting that happens during a game. 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	Results of the present study indicated that the abdominal massage 	by 	the "I LOV U" technique along with life style 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	34	out at a tertiary care hospital. Ethical approval was granted 	by 	the institutional ethics committee (KLEKIPT/IEC/2022-23/SI. NO.836) prior 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	34	massage significantly improved immune status among young adults, as measured 	by 	the ISQ and perceived immune functioning. These findings align 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	performed at first session by the researcher and   2 then  continued  	by  	the  key  care  giver.  Data  were  collected  by  the  
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	34	regarding APSs.  identify the benefits and barriers to implementing APSs 	by 	the MTs, and any barriers for the recipients of 
Editorial.txt	34	for describing practice. These initiatives have emerged independently, each motivated 	by 	the need to strengthen communication, credibility, and comparability across 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	methods to alleviate constipation and distention that can be used 	by 	the nurses independently is necessary (9). Abdominal message is  a 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	Although  this was  an  effective  massage technique which was done 	by 	the parents, it can't be generalized to the 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	abdominal message  in  neonates,  the  message  technique  can  be  learned  	by  	the  patients'  care  giver.  Therefore, despite the researcher was 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	34	to the Rome III diagnostic criteria, chronic constipation is defined 	by 	the presence of at least two of the following 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	34	commencement, the two examiners underwent a comprehensive training session conducted 	by 	the principal investigator to ensure consistency and accuracy in 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	34	meaning across the data set.  Ethics The study was approved 	by 	the Southern Institute of Technology Human Research Ethics Committee 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	34	certain populations. Many times, there was no official structure offered 	by 	the therapist, with one participant stating “…whatever they can 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	34	problems after stroke in the elderly. Always they are treated 	by 	the use of laxatives and fibers. Abdominal massage along 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	10	identifying specific muscles where TrPs were to be assessed, guided 	by 	a book of myofascial meridians for manual and movement 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	10	To measure the distention, the researcher measured the abdominal round 	by 	a meter every day in the morning.   8 2.3.3 Food intake 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	10	versus a control intervention on the outcome measures, as determined 	by 	a mixed-effects repeated measures ANCOVA with pretest values 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	10	there is enough money for a massage to be used 	by 	a person in need.  Pay What You Wish—a 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	10	massage is professional and requires special training. It was performed 	by 	a researcher in Dehghan's study, but in the 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	10	s, three times. Each maneuver was conducted for 5 s, followed 	by 	a 3-s rest, and repeated three times. This protocol 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	10	BACKGROUND Fatigue that persists over time, particularly when not explained 	by 	a specific medical condition, often reflects a complex interplay 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	10	poor. Ideally, a massage therapy-specific APS could be created 	by 	a third party and implemented by MTs with very 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	12	in the intervention group. The results indicated that abdominal massage 	by 	an "I LOV U" method with lifestyle training could  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	12	results  of Tekgündüz's study and the present research, massage 	by 	an "I LOV U" technique could be effective in 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	12	Conclusion The present study indicated that the use of massage 	by 	an "I LOV U" technique and lifestyle training could 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	12	do it. In the present study, the use of massage 	by 	an "I LOV U" technique in direction of normal 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	9	day (table2). According to the general rules of thumb given 	by 	Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001), if the contingency coefficient in 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	9	Squared=0.19>0.14  that according to the general rules of thumb given 	by 	Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001) for eta-squared, this means 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	9	seventh day. According to the general rules of thumb given 	by 	Cohen and Miles & Shevlin (2001), the contingency coefficient in this 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	8	on the specific area being evaluated. The assessment was performed 	by 	measuring the range of motion or muscle length for 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	8	Trapezius tightness assessment The assessment of trapezius tightness was conducted 	by 	measuring the range of lateral neck flexion using a 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	7	while the measuring tape was employed to assess muscle length 	by 	measuring the distance between fixed anatomical points. Both tools 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	part of an APS in some form. The most preferred 	by 	both groups was an installment scheme. For the clients, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	5	for making massage therapy more available to the wider population 	by 	both MTs and clients. One client thought APSs were: “
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	5	of reported adverse effects, low cost, and ease of application 	by 	both patients and caregivers (Gillespie & Aydinferd, 2016; McClurg et al., 2016). 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	assessment of 17 TrPs along the posterior kinetic chain was conducted 	by 	E1, with the points categorized into specific regions: the 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	of five muscles along the posterior kinetic chain was conducted 	by 	E2, with the points categorized into specific regions: the 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	6	makes sure that massage remains integrated into the basketball program 	by 	including soft tissue days during the week, typically on 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	6	makes sure that massage remains integrated into the basketball program 	by 	including soft tissue days during the week, typically on 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	6	technique exerts both mechanical and reflex effects on intestinal activity 	by 	modifying intra-abdominal pressure and gently stimulating the rectum. 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	6	on  intestinal  function  through stimulation of  the  abdominal  fascial  network.  	By  	modifying  intra-abdominal  pressure  and providing gentle stimulation to 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	this body of research, the present study extends these findings 	by 	showing not only the presence of TrPs but also 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	this body of research, the present study extends these findings 	by 	showing not only the tightness but also a significant 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	consistent with results of the present study.  In a study 	by 	Seyed Rasouli, abdominal massage was simple, regardless of direction 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	5	and long follow-up in his study (13).  In a study 	by 	Seyed Rasouli et al. (2016) titled "A comparison of the 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	in the pathophysiology of the condition.  CGHs are typically characterized 	by 	unilateral pain, meaning the pain is localized to one 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	5	including the muscles, ligaments, and fascia. It is often characterized 	by 	unilateral pain, typically beginning in the neck and radiating 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	Tekgündüz et al. utilized an abdominal massage in preterm infants 	by 	applying a clockwise direction over the intestines and colons 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	investigated  the  effects  of  abdominal  massage  in  elderly  stroke  patients  	by 	applying the intervention twice daily for 10 days. The proportion 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	were blinded to which side of the body was affected 	by 	CGH to eliminate potential bias in their assessment. This 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	Headache Society estimates that 15–20% of all persistent headaches are caused 	by 	CGH, with prevalence rates ranging from 0.7% to 13.8% across various 
Editorial.txt	4	Canada Language shapes how therapeutic massage and bodywork are perceived 	by 	clients, colleagues, policymakers, and the public. Professional credibility depends 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	off, I wouldn’t think,” MT 18. These sentiments were echoed 	by 	clients: “Pay what you wish, probably people would take 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	in the intervention group compared with 11.8% in the control group. 	By 	day  10,  these  rates  increased  to  93.1% and 79.4%,  respectively,  indicating  a  
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	group and 10% in the control group, increasing to 81.5% and 33.3%, respectively, 	by 	day 6, with a statistically significant difference between groups (p<0.05) (
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	and hamstrings, can contribute to CGH. This relationship is supported 	by 	evidence indicating that tightness in these muscle groups can 
Editorial.txt	4	as both compassionate and credible, grounded in care and informed 	by 	evidence, we must consider not only the language we 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	the upper back, lower back, and lower limbs were examined 	by 	examiner 1. Muscle tightness in the trapezius, thoracolumbar fascia, piriformis, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	the trapezius, thoracolumbar fascia, piriformis, hamstrings, and gastrosoleus was evaluated 	by 	examiner 2 using a goniometer or measuring tape.  Results Data 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	there was help available for the administrative side as illustrated 	by 	MT 10: “I would [need help setting up] if it 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	clients are likely to respect an MTs decision, as illustrated 	by 	MT 18: “there is a huge level of trust already 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	the massage was claimed. Overall, the installment scheme was preferred 	by 	MTs and massage clients.  Conclusion Massage therapy is a 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	4	APS could be created by a third party and implemented 	by 	MTs with very little work on their part. Furthermore, 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	consequence of aging; rather, it is a multifactorial condition influenced 	by 	reduced mobility, the presence of    Sağlık Akademisi Kastamonu  29 Atıf | 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	massage reported broad benefits in physical and mental symptoms, driven 	by 	reduced symptom severity and increased relaxation.(32) Another study examined 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	control group completed the study. Intervention included the abdominal massage 	by 	using "I LOV U" method along with lifestyle education. 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	4	on self-reported measures. Future research should address these limitations 	by 	using larger samples, longer interventions, and objective biomarkers, such 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	To write a letter U, all areas, where we massaged 	by 	writing I and L, were re-massaged continually. To 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	4	was position in supine, and the massage was performed circularly  	by  	writing the letter  I on  the left upper quadrant  (
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	EasyDNNNews/1028/images/m29-500-200-p-L-80.JPG  6. Is Massage Therapy Covered 	by 	ACC or Medical Insurance? Frequently asked questions. https://www.
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	site for long-term implicit memory and unresolved emotional stress.(8) 	By 	accessing these felt experiences through the body, clients may 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	that gentle, structured, and emotionally attuned approaches may offer benefit 	by 	addressing both physical and emotional dimensions of persistent fatigue.  
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	of the innate immune system in the neuropathological consequences induced 	by 	adolescent binge drinking. J Neurosci Res. 2018;96(5):765–780. https://doi.org/10.1002/
Editorial.txt	3	initiatives that have sought to establish shared terminology and taxonomies. 	By 	advancing collaboration across research, education, and practice, massage therapists 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	mentioned in almost all studies, practitioner qualifications were only mentioned 	by 14.9%. 	Although practitioners’ qualifications are likely associated with trial efficacy, 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	the placebo group, respectively (Doğan et al., 2022). In a study 	by 	Altun Uğraş et al., abdominal massage was applied twice 
Editorial.txt	3	language of massage therapy has always reflected its diversity, shaped 	by 	art and science, intuition and evidence, culture and care. 
Editorial.txt	3	my work, and what do they communicate about my profession? 	By 	asking these questions, we can ensure that our language 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	This exchange may enhance the client–therapist relationship as illustrated 	by 	Bartlett and DeSten(18) who claim that a feeling of 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	In Hanai's study, the percentage of severe constipation decreased 	by 40%, 	but the severe constipation decreased by 65% in the present 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	low-cost, non-invasive method that can also be performed 	by 	caregivers or  family  members and is generally not  associated  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	the constipation improvement time to catch higher effect size. Then 	by 	considering the attrition 34 samples were considered for each group.    6 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	3	the biggest programs integrate the practice with intention and enthusiasm.   	by 	David Malone, May 1, 2026   At a Glance Many NCAA basketball 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	Çetinkaya et al., 2020). In another intensive care unit study conducted 	by 	Dehghan et al., abdominal massage was performed twice daily 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	based on the number of weekly self-massage sessions completed 	by 	each participant in the treatment group, with a minimum 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	to the growing body of literature on self-administered massage 	by 	examining its specific impact on stress, immune function, and 
Editorial.txt	3	integrate massage therapy into public programs when its language, and 	by 	extension its identity, appears diffuse. In this way, linguistic 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	of intervention was higher than infants.  Results of a study 	by 	Fatehipour et  al. (2016)  on the  effect of abdominal massage 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	3	surgeries and/or challenges they have encountered on a game-	by-	game basis.  As with most massage therapy that happens 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	levels. Consistent with the present study, results of a study 	by 	Hanai et al. (2016) titled "the examination of effect of 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	technique  for relieving  the constipation(15), so that the clockwise massage 	by 	hand on abdomen with low to moderate pressure is 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	as  its  presentation  varies among  individuals.  It  is  generally  characterized  	by  	hard  or  lumpy  stools,  decreased defecation  frequency,  excessive  straining  
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	would benefit. Some MTs would implement a more personal system 	by 	having individual conversations with clients. Many clients were reticent 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	the Iran's population will be over 60 years of age 	by 2050; 	hence, paying attention to needs  of the  elderly is 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	al. (2014) conducted a study on the effect of abdominal massage  	by  "	I LOVE U" technique  on the  nutritional tolerance of 14  
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	of severe constipation decreased by 40%, but the severe constipation decreased 	by 65% 	in the present study. Side effects of taking chemotherapy 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	of oxytocin, significantly enhance stress relief in professional massage settings.(28,29) 	By 	incorporating both tactile and social dimensions, professional massage achieves 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	stress, as measured by standardized scales. These improvements were accompanied 	by 	increased physical activity tolerance and greater subjective well-being. 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	therapy has also shown positive effects on the immune system 	by 	increasing lymphocyte count and enhancing natural killer cell activity, 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	included ‘pay it forward,’ ‘pay what you wish,’ and paying 	by 	installments.  Setting This project involved participants from Invercargill, Dunedin 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	was confirmed by obtaining the kappa coefficient of higher than 0.7 	by 	inter-observer reliability. CAS was completed before the intervention 
Editorial.txt	3	as both compassionate and capable, grounded in care and informed 	by 	knowledge. Through our shared commitment to language that speaks 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	seek regular massage, the benefits of which are increasingly supported 	by 	literature.(16)  When considering the preferred APS, most therapists and 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	3	one that best suits their goals.  “Our decisions are driven 	by 	load, tissue response, injury history, and the athlete’s 
How NCAA Basketball Teams Are Using.txt	3	majority of the work focuses on the physical benefits offered 	by 	massage therapy, many athletic directors and trainers acknowledge the 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	valid scientific  tool  which was  first designed  and psychometrically evaluated 	by 	Mc Millan and Williams in 1989 to evaluate the severity 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	Additionally, all outcome measures were self-reported and not confirmed 	by 	medical follow-up.  Future Directions This case invites further 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	the constipation severity reduced and the severity of constipation increased 	by 	mild to moderate in patients in both groups, while 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	adults. The hypothesis is that self-massage enhances immune function 	by 	modulating immune responses and mitigating the suppressive effects of 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	indicating enhanced intestinal motility (Choi et al., 2021). In a study 	by 	Mokhtare et al., abdominal massage was performed once daily 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	phone check-ins conducted by the researchers. Safety was evaluated 	by 	monitoring any adverse events reported throughout the intervention period 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	Symptoms of Constipation Older  age  represents  a  life  stage  characterized  	by  	multifaceted  challenges,  including physiological and psychological decline, reduced participation 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	GFM conducted data collection, while data analysis was performed collaboratively 	by 	NIA and GFM. NIA drafted the manuscript. Both authors 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	Smith D. The Barriers to the Use of Massage Therapy 	by 	Non-users. Southern Institute of Technology; 2017. Accessed from https://
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	commonly  preferred  non-pharmacological interventions and can be safely implemented 	by 	nurses as part of routine care (McClurg et al., 2016; 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	and r =% 84. In the present study, the reliability was confirmed 	by 	obtaining the kappa coefficient of higher than 0.7 by inter-
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	this information is typically underreported [41,86]. Similarly, setting was only described 	by 43.3% 	of the studies, resulting in poor model validity and 
Editorial.txt	3	confidence so that our collective expertise is visible and understood 	by 	others.  Each of us contributes to the profession’s 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	in Turkey,  the proportion of the  older population has increased 	by 22.5% 	over the past five years, reaching 9.5%, and is expected 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	beginning of the morning between 7:00 to 7:30.Then it was performed 	by 	phone contact after discharge. The control group received only 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	fascia tightness assessment The thoracolumbar fascia tightness assessment was performed 	by 	placing a yardstick perpendicular to a baseline on the 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	CGH development.(5,28) The upper trapezius, in particular, is commonly affected 	by 	poor posture, cervical spine degeneration, or suboptimal ergonomics, leading 
Editorial.txt	3	Therapeutic Massage & Bodywork, play an important role in this process 	by 	providing a space for shared reflection, critical debate, and 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	in each direction, and the range of motion was quantified 	by 	recording the movement of the goniometer arm along the 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	significant, authors report that initial massage costs might be offset 	by 	reduction in subsequent care, and that the combination of 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	fascia, piriformis, hamstrings, and gastrosoleus. E2’s training was supported 	by 	relevant literature and normative values, which provided clear criteria 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	positioned supine, and the therapist induces maximal neck flexion followed 	by 	rotation to both sides while measuring the movement with 
Editorial.txt	3	Each carries meaning, yet each speaks differently to audiences shaped 	by 	scientific, regulatory, or public expectations.  This diversity of language 
Editorial.txt	3	development of the Massage Therapy Body of Knowledge (MTBOK), described 	by 	Sefton, Shea, and Hines.(5) This collaborative project united several 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	best way patients can judge the effectiveness of treatments is 	by 	self-reported symptoms, functioning and well-being. The National 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	MTs concerned about being taken advantage of—a sentiment echoed 	by 	some of the client participants.  Despite the importance of 
Beyond the Barriers Alternative Pay.txt	3	about getting some or all of your massage paid for 	by 	someone else?  18. Do you view massage therapy as a 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	S-K, et al. Modulation of the human immune status 	by 	spinal thermal massage: a non-randomized controlled study. Signa 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	of massage  on  the final day.  The data were  analyzed  	by 	SPSS16  through descriptive tests such as mean, standard deviations 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	s self-reported fatigue severity and perceived stress, as measured 	by 	standardized scales. These improvements were accompanied by increased physical 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	self-reported symptoms and clinician observations, which can be influenced 	by 	subjective interpretation. Future studies could benefit from more objective 
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	3	systematic review maps the certainty and quality of evidence reported 	by 	systematic reviews in 2018 to 2023 of massage therapy for pain 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	were no fluid limitation, Daily amount of fiber intake (18-32gr) 	by 	taking a pamphlet about the food with fiber to 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	in the control group on day 5.  Results of a study 	by 	Tekgündüz et al. (2014) titled "the impact of abdominal massage 
The Effects of Abdominal I LOV U Ma.txt	3	of the research and the researcher must follow the patients 	by 	telephone call. Conclusion The present study indicated that the 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	such as health promotion and education, with its outcomes influenced 	by 	therapeutic relationships, communication, the therapist’s expertise, and the 
Editorial.txt	3	language,(3–8) fragmentation continues to influence how the profession is understood 	by 	those outside it.  In research, inconsistency extends beyond the 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	resulting in inconsistent dosages. Further, not only do practitioners vary 	by 	type, with massage falling within the scope of practice 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	past five years, reaching 9.5%, and is expected to rise to 12.9% 	by 2030 (	TÜİK, 2019). Physiological and psychological changes occur naturally with advancing 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	R, Tilaye P. Normative data for calf muscle flexibility tested 	by 	weight-bearing lunge test in age group of 20–30 years: 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	3	in facilitating healing and recovery from pain, the underlying mechanisms 	by 	which massage affects the body are still being investigated [82–84]. 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	approximately 1 billion, and this figure is projected to reach 2.1 billion 	by 2050 (	WHO, 2022). Similarly, in Turkey,  the proportion of the  older 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	3	in constipation management. In a nursing home–based study conducted 	by 	Çevik et al., abdominal massage was applied once  daily  
