File	KPF	Left Context	Hit	Right Context
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	9	and clearer thinking (FSS: 6.3; PSS-10: 27).  Session 6: Noted increased mobility, reduced 	back 	pain, and greater ability to participate in light activities (
JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Jul 15;7(7)e24.txt	9	for the 2 health conditions that had more than 1 eligible review (	back 	pain and labor pain). This necessarily requires judgment, and 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	8	Wilai massage stick(TM) versus ibuprofen in patients with upper 	back 	pain associated with myofascial trigger points: a randomized controlled 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	8	relaxation.(32) Another study examined primary care patients with chronic low 	back 	pain receiving professional massage, finding sustained PCS gains from 
Pain Med. 2016 May 10;17(7)1353–137.txt	8	there was no evidence that massage treatments reduced costs of 	back 	pain related healthcare services during a one year post-
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	8	meaningful effectiveness signal for primary care patients with chronic low 	back 	pain: results of a repeated measures cohort study. Pain 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	the hypothesis that the posterior chain, especially in the upper 	back 	and cervical region, plays a key role in the 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	6	propelled planar parallel robot for sliding cupping-glass massage for 	back 	and chest. In: Hu Z, Petoukhov S, He M, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	point in time. Seventeen TrPs across the upper back, lower 	back, 	and lower limbs were examined by examiner 1. Muscle tightness 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	6	previous studies emphasizes the role of TrPs in the upper 	back 	and neck, specifically in muscles such as the trapezius, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	posterior myofascial chain consists of muscles that run along the 	back 	of the body, that is, from head to toe, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	4	knee to 90° on the side to be tested, holding the 	back 	of their thigh for support. The participant was then 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	approaches in the management of constipation, with its use dating 	back 	to 1870 (Arslan, 2017). It is defined as a therapeutic technique 
Constipation Management and Abdomin.txt	4	adverse effects associated with pharmacological treatments. With historical roots dating 	back 	to the 1870s, it is defined as a safe, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	F; serratus anterior: Figure 2G; lateral ribs: Figure 2H), lower 	back (	external oblique: Figure 2I; erector spinae: Figure 2J; sacrum: 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	muscles can refer pain to other areas, including the lower 	back, 	hips, and thigh, which can worsen discomfort and potentially 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	at one point in time. Seventeen TrPs across the upper 	back, 	lower back, and lower limbs were examined by examiner 1. 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	a feedback loop of muscle dysfunction.(29) Tightness in the lower 	back 	muscles can also contribute to pelvic misalignment, which, in 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	E1, with the points categorized into specific regions: the upper 	back (	occipital ridge: Figure 2A and B; splenius capitis and 
A Mindbody Approach to Long-standin.txt	3	of identified tension or restriction (e.g., shoulders, chest, lower 	back).  	Rather than “releasing” fascia in the traditional biomechanical sense, 
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	points categorized into specific regions: the upper back (trapezius), lower 	back (	thoracolumbar fascia), and lower limbs (piriformis, hamstrings, gastrosoleus) (Figure 4).     
Prevalence of Posterior Myofascial.txt	3	E2, with the points categorized into specific regions: the upper 	back (	trapezius), lower back (thoracolumbar fascia), and lower limbs (piriformis, 
The Effect of Self-Massage on Immun.txt	3	relieving pain and improving muscle condition in individuals with upper 	back 	trigger points, providing an accessible self-care option.(16) Advanced 
